
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# biogasoutcomesmalawi

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of biogasoutcomesmalawi is to provide a qualitative dataset in
a table format. The dataset consists of 61 semi-structured interviews
with biogas owners in the Southern Region of Malawi. Interviews were
conducted over multiple visits to sites over the course of a two-year
period between June 2021 and October 2022.

## Installation

You can install the development version of biogasoutcomesmalawi from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("openwashdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi")
```

Alternatively, you can download the individual datasets as a CSV or XLSX
file from the table below.

| dataset              | CSV                                                                                                                 | XLSX                                                                                                                  |
|:---------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| biogasoutcomesmalawi | [Download CSV](https://github.com/openwashdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi/raw/main/inst/extdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi.csv) | [Download XLSX](https://github.com/openwashdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi/raw/main/inst/extdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi.xlsx) |

## Description

Within Sub-Saharan Africa, biogas projects have seen significant
investment, but with a chequered record of success. Although the
potential for biogas is well covered in contemporary literature, biogas
owners, and their relationship to project outcomes, remains
underexplored. Focusing on southern Malawi, and combining qualitative
interviews with owners, with on-site socio-technical investigation, the
purpose of this research was to explore the role of individual owners in
contributing to project success or failure.

This dataset represents a complete sample of biogas installations (at
the time of the research) located within Malawi’s Southern Region. The
dataset consists of 61 semi-structured interviews with biogas owners,
conducted over multiple visits to sites over the course of a two-year
period between June 2021 and October 2022. This data was supplemented by
additional data collection, which is not include in this published
dataset, consisting of more than 20 unstructured interviews, field
notes, participatory observation, detailed socio-technical analysis of
each digester system, and countless impromptu conversations, Whatsapp
discussions, and phone calls.

Sites were identified through an initial scoping phase of the study,
which involved an exhaustive search for biogas sites from within
secondary documents and from consultations with key stakeholders within
the country, including biogas installers and representatives from the
Malawi Energy Regulatory Authority. Inclusion for participation centred
on the ownership of a biogas system. Only one interview per biogas site
was conducted. In sites with more than one relevant stakeholder/owner,
all stakeholders willing to be interviewed were included in the
interview.

Interviews were conducted in the local language (Chichewa), audio
recorded, and transcribed into English. Participation was voluntary and
could be withdrawn at any time. Respondents providing written, informed
consent, and responses were recorded anonymously. This study received
ethical approval from National Committee on Research in the Social
Sciences and Humanities, Protocol No. P.03/21/560.

## Related publications

Kalina, M., Ogwang, J.O., Kwangulero, J., and E. Tilley (2023)
Uncovering biogas outcomes: tales of hubris, hope, and failure from
southern Malawi. Natural Resources Forum. (Under Review)

Kalina, M., Ogwang, J.O., and E. Tilley (2022) From potential to
practice: rethinking Africa’s biogas revolution. Humanities and Social
Sciences Communications. 9: 374.

## List of documentation files

In addition to the data from the interviews, the following files are
provided with the data package. These files can be accessed via GitHub,
as they are contained in:

<https://github.com/openwashdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi/tree/main/inst/extdata>

### information-letter_chichewa.docx

Description: Information letter in Chichewa. This letter was read to all
participants prior to each interview. It describes the purpose and
nature of the research, as well as expectations and protections for
respondents.

### information-letter_english.docx

Description: Information letter translated into English. This letter was
read to all participants prior to each interview. It describes the
purpose and nature of the research, as well as expectations and
protections for respondents.

### informed-consent-form_chichewa.docx

Description: Informed consent form in Chichewa. Written informed consent
was sought from all respondents. Signed consent forms are being securely
stored in Blantyre, Malawi until 2027 when they will be destroyed.

### informed-consent-form_english.docx

Description: Informed consent form translated into English. Written
informed consent was sought from all respondents. Signed consent forms
are being securely stored in Blantyre, Malawi until 2027 when they will
be destroyed.

### interview-schedule_chichewa.docx

Description: Utilised interview schedule in Chichewa. Interviews were
loosely structured, with a narrative focus, to allow the respondents to
tell their stories, and share their experiences with their digesters.
Interviews also included substantial participatory elements, with
owners, particularly at the households, allowing the researchers to join
them throughout their daily routines, including their daily regimen of
feeding, maintenance, and use of the biodigester system, when
applicable.

### interview-schedule_english.docx

Description: Utilised interview schedule translated into English.
Interviews were loosely structured, with a narrative focus, to allow the
respondents to tell their stories, and share their experiences with
their digesters. Interviews also included substantial participatory
elements, with owners, particularly at the households, allowing the
researchers to join them throughout their daily routines, including
their daily regimen of feeding, maintenance, and use of the biodigester
system, when applicable.

### site-inspection-checklist.docx

Description: Socio-technical site analysis of each biogas plant was
conducted using a checklist adapted from troubleshooting guidelines
published by AGAMA Biogas (Ayres, 2018). Sites in operation were tested
on a number of criteria including: gas pressure, flame colour, and pH
(in the reactive chamber and of the digestate).

## License

Data are available as
[CC-BY](https://github.com/openwashdata/biogasoutcomesmalawi/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

## Citation

Please cite using:

``` r
citation("biogasoutcomesmalawi")
#> To cite package 'biogasoutcomesmalawi' in publications use:
#> 
#>   Schöbitz L, Kalina M, Ogwang J, Kwangulero J, Tilley E (2023).
#>   "biogasoutcomes: Data for 61 semi-structured interviews with biogas
#>   owners in Malawi."
#> 
#> A BibTeX entry for LaTeX users is
#> 
#>   @Misc{schobitzkalina:2023,
#>     title = {biogasoutcomes: Data for 61 semi-structured interviews with biogas owners in Malawi},
#>     author = {Lars Schöbitz and Marc Kalina and Jonathan Olal Ogwang and Jonathan Kwangulero and Elizabeth Tilley},
#>     year = {2023},
#>     abstract = {This dataset consists of 61 semi-structured interviews with biogas owners in the Southern Region of Malawi. Interviews were conducted over multiple visits to sites over the course of a two-year period between June 2021 and October 2022.},
#>     version = {0.0.0.9000},
#>   }
```
