**[SMALL-SCALE BIOGAS DIGESTERS AS DEVELOPMENT AID: TALES OF HUBRIS AND
FAILURE]{.underline}**

**Site ID: 04**

**Date: 2nd June, 2021**

**Interviewer:** Where did this digester originate?

**Interviewee:** It came from Water For People as a demonstration. They
said they brought it here because this village was first village to
become open defecation free in T/A Chapananga. They said we were doing
well in terms of latrine construction and hygiene practices. So, as a
token of appreciation they decided to build a biogas here, and that this
was one of the many that was to come.

**Interviewer:** Did they explicitly say it was a demo?

**Interviewee:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** Tell me about the demonstration, how did it go?

**Interviewee:** After installation I remember calling them to inform
about them that it was not producing biogas. They came and communicated
that they were going to come again to fix the problem. But since that
time they have never come again. And I heard their project phased out
and the white man who was supporting them returned to his home.

**Interviewer:** Did you meet the white man?

**Interviewee:** Yes, he used to come as a matter of fact, this chair
I'm sitting on he is the one who gave me (Laughs).

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) you must have been very close. Okay, who
designed it?

**Interviewee:** Aaaah, they didn't tell me who designed it. They just
said they had finished similar interventions with other communities. And
they went on to say, they wanted people from this community to learn
from the initiative so that when they complete their project people
should learn from me and replicate the same in their houses.

**Interviewer:** Were people coming here to learn about the biogas?

**Interviewee:** No, it wasn't like people from the community were
coming to my house to learn. I believe they just wanted people to admire
so that they could adopt the same in their houses.

**Interviewer:** Who funded it?

**Interviewee:** I believe it came from water for people.

**Interviewer:** So, who built the digester? Was it people from this
community or they brought people to build it?

**Interviewee:** They brought men who worked on it for three weeks.

**Interviewer:** How many were they?

**Interviewee:** It was two guys. They stayed here with us during that
time.

**Interviewer:** What was your role?

**Interviewee:** I provided bricks and cattle manure which was used to
initiate and boost the reactor before human waste was introduced into
the reactor.

**Interviewer:** How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee:** I was very much interested in WASH issues. And I was
the first chief in T/A Chapananga to show interest in ensuring that
people were constructing pit latrines to eliminate open defecation. This
village was an exemplary village when it came to WASH issues, and even
now it's still an exemplary village. So, that's why they decided to
offer me the biogas to be the first demonstration site so that people
would appreciate biogas technology.

**Interviewer:** Before this intervention, did you know about biogas?

**Interviewee:** No, I didn't.

**Interviewer:** Okay, take me through your introduction to biogas?

**Interviewee**: Before commencement of construction work, they told me
that human manure can be used to produce energy for cooking and
lighting. They also said human manure can be used to make bricks. So,
they recommended biogas because it reduces misuse and reliance of trees
for firewood.

**Interviewer:** Honestly, I don't know how human waste can be turned
into bricks. What did they say? How does it work?

**Interviewee:** They simply say there is a mechanism which turns human
manure into bricks, but they didn't go into details.

**Interviewer:** What were your expectations?

**Interviewee:** I expected to be able to cook without firewood (Laughs)

**Interviewer:** What else?

**Interviewee:** Nothing else.

**Interviewer:** You have mentioned a number of things that biogas can
do. For example, it can be used for lighting, cooking and making bricks.
I want to know, what were you told to expect with it on your household?

**Interviewee:** I was told that I would have energy for cooking that I
wouldn't need firewood for cooking.

**Interviewer:** Anything else?

**Interviewee:** (Laughs) nothing else.

**Interviewer:** What kind of training were you given by the installers?

**Interviewee:** No, we didn't receive any training. I recall asking
them to train members of chiefs committee on biogas or to take us to the
communities where they have had similar projects to learn from them.
They didn't heed our calls, so it didn't happen.

**Interviewer:** So, after installation you were told how it operates
and how to operate it?

**Interviewee:** Not a bit. They didn't train us on that. And I believe
that's why it failed. It failed because they just installed it and
didn't give us the expertise to operate it.

**Interviewer:** This is very important -- I want to know when they
finished building the reactor, what did they say in terms of its
operation?

**Interviewee:** That's where they failed us. We were expecting to have
training. We even asked for it so that we could share the information
with other people from the community...We had the whole community
committee which was present throughout the construction process and we
were all hoping that we were going to have training on biogas after
installation instead they simply taught us how to open and close the
gas.

**Interviewer:** Did they tell you to put water and all that?

**Interviewee:** They said we should be adding water in the pit latrine,
and also to feed the digester with manure, two -- 20L containers after
every 2 to 4 days or so.

**Interviewer:** Did they show you?

**Interviewee:** They simply told us.

**Interviewer:** How prepared to run operate the reactor did you feel
you were?

**Interviewee:** We were never able to use it.

**Interviewer:** How long did it work?

**Interviewee:** It could only produce fire for less than 2 minutes --
We never used it, we couldn't even boil water for bathing.

**Interviewer:** How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? (i.e. cook)

**Interviewee:** We have trees around which we use as firewood.

**Interviewer:** I have seen a number of goats around the house, how did
you manage your waste (the feedstock) before the reactor?

**Interviewee:** We were using it as manure and we are still using it as
manure.

**Interviewer:** How did the system work after commissioning?

**Interviewee:** It never worked because when we tried to cook or boil
water, water couldn't boil. Only a little flame was coming out and it
wasn't enough to heat anything. Then, we called them; they just said
they will come. Since then they have never returned.

**Interviewer:** How much gas was being produced?

**Interviewee:** They didn't tell us. And whatever it was you couldn't
cook anything with it.

**Interviewer:** So, how did you use the gas?

**Interviewee:** We were told that we could use the gas for cooking but
we never used it not even for a single time -- It never worked.

**Interviewer:** What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee:** We were told to use cow dung first then add pig or goat
manure on top of human waste which was connected to the digester through
a pit latrine in order to have an active feed.

**Interviewer:** How many people were using the pit?

**Interviewee:** 6 people.

**Interviewer:** What volume of other waste was you advised to feed the
digester?

**Interviewee:** We were told to pit 2 buckets of 20 litres of manure
after every 4 days.

**Interviewer:** How much water did you add?

**Interviewee:** 2 buckets of 20 litres which translated to 40 litres of
water.

**Interviewer:** How did you prepare that feedstock?

**Interviewee:** We asked to mix manure and water in the bucked the feed
the digester, As for the pit latrine, we were told to put water in the
pit latrine too.

**Interviewer:** How much water?

**Interviewee:** A bucket after a week or so, I don't really remember.

**Interviewer:** Who was responsible for feeding the digestor?

**Interviewee:** The family was responsible for feeding the digestor.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee:** They said if it stopped working we should consult them
to come and fix the digestor. It was them who were solely responsible
for maintenance because we couldn't do anything because we knew nothing
on how to fix it when it malfunctioned. That's why I asked them to train
the community committee members so that they could sort problems when it
malfunctioned, unfortunately, it never happened. We knew that if they
could train us on little things it would help because it was impractical
and tiresome for them to come and fix every single problem.

**Interviewer:** They did tell you anything about maintenance, even the
little about maintenance?

**Interviewee:** No, they didn't.

**Interviewer:** You said the digester didn't meet your needs? How?

**Interviewee:** They said we could use the digester for cooking and
after sometime we would be able to use it for lighting as gas production
increases. Unfortunately, we were not even able to use it for cooking.

**Interviewer:** So, taking all into consideration, what challenges did
you encounter?

**Interviewee:** As you have seen. The pit latrine is full and blocked
because I believe someone disposed a stone in the pit. We are having
challenges as can't manage to empty it that we have just locked it.
Also, we feel the dome wasn't properly constructed because it has cracks
which we believe gas escapes from. Besides that masonry work wasn't done
properly because most of it collapsed after a very little time.

**Interviewer:** Why do you feel someone left a stone in the pit and it
caused it to block?

**Interviewee:** Initially, when we were using the pit latrine effluent
would rise at the outlet and the pit latrine content would depress. We
used to collect and use the effluent as manure for farming purpose. But,
after some time we saw that the pit content was not depressing, and we
couldn't have effluent at the outlet. That's when we released that it
had blocked.

**Interviewer:** We are halfway through our interview, how long did you
use it for before it stopped working?

**Interviewee:** We used it from 2018 to 2020 -- from 2018 that's when
we noticed the problems -- 2020 that's when it stopped completely

**Interviewer:** When was it built?

**Interviewee:** 2016

**Interviewer:** Did it work?

**Interviewee:** It worked in a sense that we were using the pit latrine
as a toilet. As far as using it as an energy source for cooking were not
able to do that from the onset.

**Interviewer:** Oh, technically used never used the biogas for cooking,
but for other things like collecting effluent for farming and as a
toilet?

**Interviewee:** Exactly.

**Interviewer:** Did you ever try to fix it?

**Interviewee:** When we saw that the dome had cracks, using our common
sense, we thought we were not able to get enough gas for cooking because
gas was escaping through the cracks. So, I hired a builder who tried to
fix the cracks by lining it with cement but it didn't work, As for the
pit latrine, we didn't do anything because we couldn't manage to reach
the bottom to remove the stone to unblock it. Thus, we just left it, and
that's why it is full and locked today.

**Interviewer:** When did you notice the cracks?

**Interviewee**: It was in 2016, it didn't take long after they had
completed the work. That's when I first called them to inform them of
the problem. They did come and saw the problem. Then, they just said
they were going to come again to fix it. Since then they have never come
back.

**Interviewer:** Like how long after they completed the work?

**Interviewee:** It was after 3 months.

**Interviewer:** Okay, did you try to follow up after?

**Interviewee:** The installers came to assess the problem and say they
were going to return. I tried to follow up with their boss, a certain
lady who used to come in a wrap-around cloth, \[name redacted\]. In the
course of following up I learned she left Water For People for another
organization. And that's when I stopped seeing Water For People. As for
the white man, he was long gone to his countries, and I never saw him
again after he gave me this chair.

**Interviewer:** I'm interested to know, when the people assessed the
problem, what did they say was the problem? Or what was causing the
problem?

**Interviewee:** They didn't say what the problem was. They just made it
look like a simple problem. But, we released that it was a bigger
problem than they made it look. And, we released that they couldn't fix
the problem as it was beyond their expertise, because if it was
something they could have managed to fix I'm sure they would have come
and solve the problem. And I'm sure when they saw the problem, in their
hearts, they knew they couldn't fix it, and that's why they never came
back.

**Interviewer:** Have you seen something like this (Shown a table
intervention)? What do you think about this kind of information and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee:** It would have helped us because it would have guided us
on how to solve same of the problems. For example, when they told me how
much feed I was supposed to load, I was loading the feedstock as I was
told. In the same manner, I would have been following what the table was
recommending.

**Interviewer:** We have done almost 80% of the interview; we are going
towards the end. How would you describe the current state of the
digester?

**Interviewee:** The digestor is not functioning -- it's completely
dead.

**Interviewer:** In your opinion, what is the caused it to reach this
state?

**Interviewee:** It failed because we were not provided with enough
information and skills on how to operate and maintain it. In this
community we have village committees, health committee which if were
provided with expertise on biogas, I'm sure would have managed to
maintain it.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what else?

**Interviewee:** I can say the digestor was not constructed the way it
is supposed to be constructed. You can tell this by the simple fact that
it never worked from the onset. Imagine, we never used it for cooking.

**Interviewer:** Okay, you said they constructed the digester for 2/3
weeks, and after they finished the work they saw that you couldn't use
it for cooking and it was not producing gas. I would like to know, when
they were leaving, what did they say? What happened?

**Interviewee:** We had no previous experience with biogas so when we
saw a little gas and also told that after some time more gas was going
to be produced, we were convinced that at some point we were going to
use to have more gas and eventually use it for cooking. (Laughs)

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) okay, the digester is not working, what are
you using for energy i.e. cooking?

**Interviewee:** We are currently using firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer:** How do you manage your waste (feedstock) now that the
reactor isn't working?

**Interviewee:** we are using manure as fertilizer for farming purposes.

**Interviewer:** It works okay?

**Interviewee:** It works perfectly. And this year we are going to have
a dumper yield than previous years.

**Interviewer:** You said it was funded by water for people, by any
chance, do you know how much money was involved?

**Interviewee:** No, they didn't tell me.

**Interviewer:** You said you provided bricks and manure. What else did
you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee:** Only that -- Cement and everything else was provided
for by Water For People.

**Interviewer:** What you contributed was it voluntary or mandatory?

**Interviewee:** I was told to contribute those things so that they
could start.

**Interviewer:** What do you think could have happened if you failed to
contribute such things?

**Interviewee:** I don't know. They simply told me to contribute such
things, and fact that I was interested to have the digester, I
contributed without hesitation. Plus, manure wasn't a problem for me
since I raise cattle and goats.

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) and being a chief too you wouldn't have
struggle to siource such things, I guess. How much did it cost you to
acquire the bricks?

**Interviewee:** It was provided for by someone from the community.

**Interviewer:** How much labor was involved in terms of digging?

**Interviewee:** They hired 3 people to do the digging work.

**Interviewer:** For how long?

**Interviewee:** They worked for 4 days.

**Interviewer:** Masonry**?**

**Interviewee:** It was 2 people who came from Water For People.

**Interviewer:** For how long?

**Interviewee:** 2 weeks

**Interviewer:** Was there any other work which was done?

**Interviewee:** Yes, people were hired to collect water soaking stones
which they used for the outlets -- The one I showed you. They said we
needed those stones so that we would be able to harvest dry manure as
the stones soak up water from the output.

**Interviewer:** How many were involved in this task?

**Interviewee:** It was the same 3 people, and they took some hour to do
the work.

**Interviewer:** What kinds of special items had to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee:** Nothing.

**Interviewer:** They didn't say anything was sourced from outside the
country?

**Interviewee:** No, they didn't.

**Interviewer:** Did it save you money in terms of energy consumption or
anything? Did it help you in anyway?

**Interviewee:** No, it never worked so it didn't help use in terms of
cooking. The only thing that was positive was that they built a pit
latrine which was connected to the digester that we manage to use for
some time.

**Interviewer:** We are going towards the end, we remaining with 2
questions. What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee:** Biogas is a good thing -- It is something I was
interest in and I'm still interested in. That's why when my wife told me
you came; I was very much interested in your visit because I hoping that
at the end of the day you will be able to rejuvenate the digester so
that I can at least use it. Recently, I planned to dismantle the whole
thing including the toilet because at the moment I don't have a toilet
since it got full.

**Interviewer:** What fascinated you about biogas?

**Interviewee:** The fact that we can use human manure which many see as
waste to produce energy for cooking and lighting is very interesting.
Also, the fact that, we you can use it for cooking without using
firewood and charcoal is very significant in terms of curbing
deforestation in the community.

**Interviewer:** Last one, if you could have designed your own waste or
energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee:** I don't know any energy intervention that can use human
waste to produce energy for lighting and cooking, so I'm limited of
choices.

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) this is the end of our interview. Thanks a lot
the interview.

**Interviewee:** Welcome.
