**[SMALL-SCALE BIOGAS DIGESTERS AS DEVELOPMENT AID: TALES OF HUBRIS AND
FAILURE]{.underline}**

**Site ID: 05**

**Date: 3^rd^ June, 2021**

**Interviewer:** Okay, where did the digester originate?

**Interviewee:** It was designed by a certain Tanzanian, and it was
constructed by the same person.

**Interviewer:** He came alone or with a team?

**Interviewee:** He came alone, and he found people here who assisted
him with the work. But, he basically did everything by himself. The
other people were simply supporting him. For instance, He was laying the
bricks; the people were simply passing him the bricks. So, basically he
supervised the work and he was also on the forefront doing the work.

**Interviewer:** Who funded it?

**Interviewee:** I believe it was Kondanani, but I'm really sure about
that. The director is better placed to answer this one.

**Interviewer:** What was Kondanani\`s role?

**Interviewee:** As for me, I was also involved in the construction
work. Then after construction, the Tanzanian guy trained us how the
system works to produce gas.

**Interviewer:** Was it a donation or something that Kondanani paid?

**Interviewee:** I don't really know. I just saw the person building the
digester. So, I don't know what type of agreement was there.

**Interviewer:** What happens here at Kondanani?

**Interviewee:** It's an orphanage - There is a hospital, and we produce
cheese.

**Interviewer:** How did you know about biogas?

**Interviewee:** Honestly, I came to know about biogas after the
Tanzanian guy came to build our digester. I learnt more about biogas
during that time -- we were told that the best manure for biogas is pig
manure. It's better than cattle manure.

**Interviewer:** How or why is pig manure better than cattle manure?

**Interviewee:** He said pigs eat almost everything -- not just grass,
that's why its manure is very good for biogas.

**Interviewer:** What is your scope of work on this biogas?

**Interviewee:** I clean and collect manure from the barn; I prepare
feedstock by removing debris from manure with a rake. Then I mix
feedstock before feeding it into the digester.

**Interviewer:** What were your expectations on biogas?

**Interviewee:** We expected change in terms of waste management.
Initially, we were just disposing of waste anyhow - we were disposing of
waste in the banana plantation within premises. But, when biogas was
installed, it improved cleanliness on the premise as waste is better
contained in the digester. Also, it has helped us to reduce workload as
it easier and nearer to dispose of water in the digester than disposing
of waste at the banana site. Also, we expected to reduce work of
preparing wood fuel.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were you told to expect from the installer?

**Interviewee:** We were not told to expect anything, but people who
work at the kitchen were told to expect more as biogas would replace use
of firewood. This was very welcoming because people working at the
kitchen were really struggling to source firewood for cooking. On our
part, it only helped us by reducing the workload as waste is disposed of
closer to the khola.

**Interviewer:** You touched on training, what kind of training were you
given by the installers?

**Interviewee:** After installation, we were told that when feeding the
digester feedstock should be free from debris to avoid blockages.
Secondly, we were told to add sufficient water to avoid blockages as
well. And also were told how to detect gas leakages within the system.

**Interviewer:** How were you told to detect leakages?

**Interviewee:** He said when we see that there is little or no gas
pressure at the stove we should know that its gas leakage. He also said
when there is a leakage effluent at the outlet doesn't build up.

**Interviewer:** How many were trained?

**Interviewee:** We were about 5 people. And from that group I'm the
only one remaining. So, I'm responsible for training other people on
biogas as well when they are starting work.

**Interviewer:** How prepared to run operate the reactor did you feel
you were?

**Interviewee:** At first we thought it was difficult thing to operate.
But after the training we felt confident, and to say the trust, most of
the things are not difficult to follow and implement. And after
training, the installer stayed for some time to monitor how it was
performing, and everyone was convinced that it was running well.

**Interviewer:** Why did you think it's a difficult thing to operate at
the beginning?

**Interviewee:** You know when you have a new thing you always feel
uncomfortable. Also, we felt nervous about working around gas as you
know people say it's dangerous to work with and around gas. We had no
option but to work as we couldn't do anything. But with time, we got
used to the idea and we realised that it wasn't as scary as we thought
as compared to LPG gas.

**Interviewer:** So you feared gas.......

**Interviewee:** Yes, we heard stories that a number of people have died
in the process of cooking using gas. One thing though, the installer
emphasised that we need to take extra care when handling manure.

**Interviewer:** Okay, how? Why?

**Interviewee:** We were told to wear personal protective equipment like
groves, masks because the system produces strong odours at the outlet
which may result into respiratory diseases.

**Interviewer:** I'm no biogas expert, so I'm not sure how you would
come across the odours?

**Interviewee:** I get what you are saying. We don't come across the
odour when we are feeding the digester, but at the outlet where the
system releases effluent as by-products. The odour is strong enough that
it is felt around the digester. So, we were told by the installer to
wear PPE, but it is unfortunate the organisation doesn't provide us with
proper PPE.

**Interviewer:** Did you tell your bosses that you were told to wear PPE
when working on the biogas digester?

**Interviewee:** After corona they started giving us masks, so we use
the masks to deal with the odour. As for other PPE, we just improvise by
wearing dirty long clothes.

**Interviewer:** Why did you choose to build a digester here?

**Interviewee:** We were having problems sourcing firewood as we require
huge chunks of firewood for cooking. Also, I believe they chose to build
a digester to cut the cost of firewood.

**Interviewer:** I believe you started work before the digester was
built.....

**Interviewee:** That's very true

**Interviewer:** Okay, how did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? (I.e. cook)

**Interviewee:** We were using firewood but we were having problems
because the director was against the use of trees as firewood. And when
one was catch cutting trees by the director their salary was cut. And I
believe that's why she decided to build a digester here.

**Interviewer:** That is interesting. So, where were you expected to
source energy for cooking?

**Interviewee:** We didn't understand what she was up to -- that's why
she brought the digester.

**Interviewer:** On the same, what was your Kondanani energy plan
because I'm thinking, if she was against people cutting tree there was
some sort of energy plan in place

**Interviewee:** I didn't really understand because we had to cook food,
and we could only cook with firewood. But, she was very much angry when
huge amount of wood was cut.

**Interviewer:** How did you manage your manure waste?

**Interviewee:** We had banana fields close to the dam, so we used to
dispose of manure in the banana fields as fertilizer. We used to field
children the same bananas as fruit after meal.

**Interviewer:** Don't you think the coming of the digester negatively
impacted your banana production?

**Interviewee:** We bought the land together with the banana fields from
Press Corporation, so the banana field wasn't part of Kondanani's plan.
Our plan was to use the banana field to build houses and a football
field as you can know see.

**Interviewer:** How did the system work after commissioning?

**Interviewee:** At first, it was working perfectly well -- better than
now because we had so much cattle and pigs then. That time we had 150
pigs and 40 cattle so manure wasn't a problem.

**Interviewer:** How long were you using it?

**Interviewee:** It was working from 6 AM -- 6 PM -- 12 hours. That time
we were able to feed the digester daily with ample feedstock.

**Interviewer:** How long do you use it now?

**Interviewee:** They still use it from 6AM - 6PM. However, the number
of people has reduced as compared to back then. Nonetheless, they still
use it 3 times a day from 6 AM -- 6 PM.

**Interviewer:** [\[response inaudible\]]{.mark}

**Interviewee:** I don't really know. Maybe 300 or 200 now we are 100 or
150.

**Interviewer:** How much gas does it produce?

**Interviewee:** To be honest, I don't know. I think to know the
actually amount of gas it produce we need to have measuring equipment,
and unfortunately we don't have. However, we are able to detect the
amount of feedstock in the digester by observing gas production at the
stove. If the stove is burning with low pressure, we know the digester
needs feeding to enhance gas production. Also when there is low or no
feedstock in the digester, the flame is always blue and low.

**Interviewer:** Used you use the gas for cooking, how else did you use
the gas?

**Interviewee:** There was nothing else -- we were only using it for
cooking.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what are the operation requirements?

**Interviewee:** We only need manure and water. And when you mix them
you need to stir well to get a smooth feed.

**Interviewer:** Okay, how much waste is needed?

**Interviewee:** We need 20 wheelbarrows of manure. However, we are able
to get only 15 wheelbarrows of manure. So, to compensate the deficit we
add more water.

**Interviewer:** 15 full wheelbarrows?

**Interviewee:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** How much water do you add?

**Interviewee:** We were told to add 7 drum of 200 Litres. But, now we
don't put 7 drums as we have a tap just on the digester. So, we use the
tap these days. And to know that we have added adequate water, we see
water an overflow at the outlet.

**Interviewer:** How long does it take for you to feed the digester?

**Interviewee:** We feed 7 wheelbarrow of manure everyday if we fail to
go collect other manure from our suppliers. If we are able to collect
manure from them, we feed 15 wheelbarrows. To this, we open the tap from
7AM to 10 Am, and then at 1 PM we open again, because we add additional
manure around that time. We were told that the digester is huge so when
there is inadequate manure we should offset by adding more water. The
digester is 4 meters deep with a length of 5 meters, so for gas to be
produce there is a certain minimum level. So we always ensure that we
reach that level by adding water to the digester regardless if we have
manure or not to keep it working. Thus, if the manure and water is below
that limit, you see people from the kitchen coming to say they are not
getting gas at the stoves.

**Interviewer:** Okay, do you know the size of this limit?

**Interviewee:** I don't know exactly, but it's very deep like I said
the digester is 4 meters deep and 6 meters long.

**Interviewer:** Where do you get extra manure?

**Interviewee:** We get it from the Roman Catholic Church right after
the filling station. It's about 8 - 12 km from here. We get manure after
3- 4 days because they have only about 20 cows so we want to fill the
truck with manure whenever we go there. As a result, we wait for them to
collect and pile manure that when we go we collect a full truck of
manure. We don't go daily because we want to collect enough manure as
well as we save fuel by reducing number of trips.

**Interviewer:** how did you manage to get the Roman Catholic people on
board?

**Interviewee:** I was approached and asked by the director how we could
solve manure shortages. So, realised that I saw at the Roman Catholic
Church they throw away manure. So I went there to ask them to be
supplying us the manure. Lucky enough, they said we can be going to
collect manure whenever we want to. We have been in touch with them for
a month now. Before them we used to collect manure from a very far
distant organisation, Kamphonje, but their cattle and pigs got diseased
and died.

**Interviewer:** How did you prepare that feedstock?

**Interviewee:** we mix manure and water in a bucket, then with a rake
with remove all the debris so that the feed is free from trash that can
block the system. Then after a day we feed the digester with the
feedstock.

**Interviewer:** Who was responsible for feeding the digester?

**Interviewee:** It is me, and my assistant. It is me who trained him
about biogas as well.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee:** It has never got broken ever since it was built. The
only maintenance we do is on the inlet. There is a certain wood material
which closes and opens the inlet. That thing get rotten most of the time
as a result we simply replace it every now and them. The other work that
has been done on the digester since it came is the introduction of a tap
on the digester.

**Interviewer:** what this wooden material?

**Interviewee:** It is a wooden material with a mesh of wires which is
placed on the inlet. It helps ensure that feed doesn't get into the
digester during stirring. Thus, after stirring you take out the material
to allow feed to get into the digester.

**Interviewer:** Who is responsible for this task?

**Interviewee:** We have a carpenter who is responsible for making that
thing. It's not a difficult thing to do though, even myself I can do
that.

**Interviewer:** Okay, Does the digester meet your needs?

**Interviewee:** (Laughs) it looks like we are able to cook as much as
we like.

**Interviewer:** There are no shortcomings?

**Interviewee:** (Laughs) No.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what challenges did you encounter apart from what
you have already discussed?

**Interviewee:** we work without safety boots. The problem comes in
especially when we are working with pig manure because it causes the
skin to itch when it comes into contact with skin. The other thing, we
work without proper clothing as a result, our clothes doesn't last long.
In general, we need PPE to work safely.

**Interviewer:** You know you need proper PPE to work safely, have you
tried to talk to your bosses about it?

**Interviewee:** I can't blame our current boss because he has provided
us with safety boots. But, they say it's our duty to buy our own work
suit. And as you know, we receive peanuts and we can't afford to buy a
work suit as a result we work without a work suit. But, we really need a
work suit because we work in a hostile environment.

**Interviewer:** Why can't you say the same to you bosses?

**Interviewee:** (Laughs) if you can complain like this, they will tell
you that if you can't manage to work under such conditions, then you
should just resign, and when you think of the problems at home, you are
forced to work without PPE.

**Interviewer:** What other challenge does it face?

**Interviewee**: We only have problems when there is no sufficient
manure, as a result gas production drops. Other than that we face no
challenges. The other thing is that we just need constant monitoring
especially at the inlet to prevent blockages, and we always monitor the
inlet to ensure that it doesn't block.

**Interviewer:** How does this problem manifest?

**Interviewee:** When it block, when you feed the digester you see that
feeds doesn't get go inside the digester. So, we get a long stick to
push and unblock the inlet. So, this happens mostly when the thing I
have talked about gets damaged or when you feed the digester with dry
manure.

**Interviewer:** Has it ever stopped working before?

**Interviewee:** It has never stopped working for the past 9 years. For
it to stop working there must be a puncture on the dome or a leakage
along the pipes.

**Interviewer:** Has there been a day where gas wasn't produced?

**Interviewee:** There was a day where gas leaked. We thought we did
everything correct in terms of feeding the digester and adding water to
the feed, but we not getting flame on the stove.

**Interviewer:** What happened after and how did you find the problem?

**Interviewee:** One of the chefs noticed a strange odour around the
kitchen area. That's when we were able to follow and detect that a pipe
close to the kitchen wall was punctured due to rust, hence the smell. We
removed the pipe and replaced it.

**Interviewer:** Has it ever broken that you called the installer or
someone from outside?

**Interviewee:** No, it has never ever broken to that level, and since
he left he has never been here again.

**Interviewer:** How long did it take to notice the problem and solves
it that day it stopped working?

**Interviewee:** It was just some hours, it didn't fail completely.

**Interviewer:** Okay, have you seen something like this (shown table of
interventions)? What do you think about this kind of information and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee:** I have never seen something like this. But I think such
information can help to solve problems that may arise since is it
describing a problem and its possible solution. Thus, the information
can assist in solving problems. And if it's possible it should have a
copy.

**Interviewer:** How would you describe the current state of the
digester?

**Interviewee:** In terms of perfomance I think it's in a perfect state
and it has always been like this. The only challenge I see, we have
problem with manure as we don't produce enough manure on our own.

**Interviewer:** Why are you facing manure problem?

**Interviewee:** We have lost cattle and pigs because of diseases.
However, we have now bought new cattle so we will be okay.

**Interviewer:** We are going towards the end; we have about 20%
remaining. You said it once stopped working for a day, that day what did
you do for energy?

**Interviewee:** Like I said, it did not stop for the whole day. We were
able to detect the problem the same day, later in the afternoon, that\`s
when we called a plumber to change the pipe. But, that afternoon, we
used firewood to cook.

**Interviewer:** Sure, how do you manage waste when there is abundant
waste?

**Interviewee:** We have never reach that point because the digester is
so huge that we have never fed it to its full before.

**Interviewer:** we are going toward the end. How much did the reactor
cost to build?

**Interviewee:** I don't know the actual amount, but I heard 100 bags of
cement was used, plus brick force wire and all that. It must be a lot of
money

**Interviewer:** Who paid for it?

**Interviewee:** I believe its Kondanani, and I'm sure it was not a
donation because we usually find a name of the funder on the donated
items, but on this one, there is no name which makes me believe it was
Kondanani's money.

**Interviewer:** Did you or your organization have to contribute
anything in kind?

**Interviewee:** I can't know.

**Interviewer:** How much labour do you think went into building
digging?

**Interviewee:** I think 10 - 12.

**Interviewer:** Masonry?

**Interviewee:** It was one person. I mean all this was built by this
one man, the rest of the guys were just supporting him with other work
like carrying bricks and all that.

**Interviewer:** What there any other works beside digging and masonry?

**Interviewee:** Refilling of soil which was done by the 10 labourers

**Interviewer:** I believe you were here throughout the construction
process, what kinds of special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee:** I didn't here that anything was imported. And the
things I saw they didn't look like they were from outside Malawi -- and
I have seen them here, for example, cement, lime and the brick force
wire.

**Interviewer:** Did the reactor save you money in terms of energy
consumption?

**Interviewee:** Yes, because before the digester we used to buy LPG for
cooking but now we don't use it anymore, therefore, I can say it saving
us money. Also, the amount of wood we were using for cooking is lesser
than we were using before the digester. Of course, we still use firewood
and LPG for cheese production, but it's not as much.

**Interviewer:** We are going towards the end of our interview. We are
remaining with two questions. What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee:** In my opinion, biogas is a good thing because it
protects the environment, and at the same time it saves money as it is
cheaper than electricity and firewood. So, it's very good.

**Interviewer:** How does it protect the environment?

**Interviewee:** It lessens the use of trees which promotes circulation
of fresh air and rainfall.

**Interviewer:** Last one, if you could have designed your own waste or
energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee:** I would stick with biogas because of its ability to be
used as an energy source for cooing as well as a manure making product.

**Interviewer:** Thanks for the interview,

**Interviewee:** Welcome.
