**[SMALL-SCALE BIOGAS DIGESTERS AS DEVELOPMENT AID: TALES OF HUBRIS AND
FAILURE]{.underline}**

**Site ID: 07**

**Date: 5^th^ June, 2021**

**Interviewer:** Okay, where did the digester originate?

**Interviewee:** It came from Ecogen, a Malawian company which sell
biogas digesters.

**Interviewer:** Who designed it?

**Interviewee:** The digester was imported from Kenya so I presume the
digester was designed in Kenya. As far as installation and everything,
it was Ecogen who did all that.

**Interviewer:** Did you pay for it or it was a donation?

**Interviewee:** We paid for it.

**Interviewer:** How much did you pay for it?

**Interviewee:** We paid K600 000 plus, but not more than K700 000. K
600 000 was for the digester, while the other was for labour, water cost
and all that.

**Interviewer:** So, who built it?

**Interviewee:** It was built by Ecogen with the support from our
labourers, under Ecogen supervision.

**Interviewer:** Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee:** Yes. I knew about biogas before I met Ecogen guys.

**Interviewer:** How did you know it?

**Interviewee:** I learnt about biogas from Kenya and also on YouTube.

**Interviewer:** You have been Kenya?

**Interviewee:** I saw on internet how people in Kenya were using manure
to produce energy.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewer:** After I saw the videos from Kenya or after I met
Ecogen?

**Interviewee:** Both......

**Interviewer:** My thoughts after I saw Kenya biogas videos I was like
I need this. So, before I met Ecogen, I did my own experiment with
manure to see if what I saw on the internet from Kenya was practical.
Luckily enough, it was a successful experiment -- it worked. After that,
I was introduced to Ecogen by a friend. When I met Ecogen, I wanted a
biogas digester which uses manure, but at the time they had food waste
biogas digesters from China. They promised that they would get back to
me once they got it, and after sometime they reached back to me that
they had the biogas digester in store, and that's when I bought this
one. ..

**Interviewer:** Okay great. Could you please take me through the
experiment you had?

**Interviewee:** I was lucky that my neighbour had cow dung on his
compound. I took some of the cow dung, add water and put it in a 5 litre
plastic bottle. Then, I bought an intravenous drip, made a hole on a 5
litre bottle and connected the drip to the bottle and closed the drip.
After that I was checking the pressure, and the bottle was expanding
each day because of the pressure, and each day I was trying to light up
the flame. I tried it for a couple times, it didn't work, but after 40
or 50 days it produced a flame at the opening end of the drip after I
ignited a match stick, then that's when I knew that these things really
work.

**Interviewer:** Wow, amazing. What were you expecting to use biogas
for?

**Interviewee:** My desire and wish was to produce biogas that I could
sell in order to improve the livelihood of people within the community.
That was my first desire. Of course, I knew if I could have such a
system, I was also going to be able to use it for cooking as well. I
also expected to be able to store gas. Just last week, I was at a
children's party, I saw a jumping castle so I thought to myself that I
can turn a jumping castle into a gas storage chamber, you see. So, at
the moment I'm at a stage where I'm just trying things out and to see if
it's viable and sustainable. Yesterday, I was at Game Store to see yoga
balls and see if I could turn them into harvesting bags -- but I wasn't
impressed with their size. They are a little small for storage purposes.
That said I want a biogas digester because I'm a farmer and I want to
use manure from my cattle for energy and farming. I also feel I have an
obligation to help the community in terms of energy by supplying them
with biogas.

**Interviewer:** From what you have seen so far, do you think you will
be able to reach the level you will be able to supply others with
biogas?

**Interviewee:** Of course, at the moment, I'm reaching out to people
who have cattle to consider about owning a biogas digester. If they
can't afford the biogas digester, then they can buy biogas from me. As
it stands though, we are having challenges in a sense that people are
failing to understand what biogas is and what it does. So, at the
moment, I'm mostly involved in selling biogas effluent which is manure
as well as a pesticide and a supplement to livestock.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were you told to expect by the installer?

**Interviewee:** They told me that biogas can be used for cooking as
well as on a generator. Actually, I saw this on the internet, so I was
lucky to meet Ecogen to explain the same thing to me. I'm very thankful
to Ecogen that I have learnt a lot from them. And my passion for gas
technology, both LPG and biogas has elevated because of them.

**Interviewer:** You seem very passionate and well versed in gas
technology, where did you get all this passion?

**Interviewee:** I'm not well knowledgeable about gas technology; I
believe I'm still learning. However, my interest in gas technology
didn't come because of gas; it came because of my interest in
environmental protection which started when I was part of organisation
called Green Initiative at Chancellor College. During that time we were
advocating the use of briquettes to prevent deforestation and
environmental impacts. So from there on I have had a great interesting
in environmental management.

**Interviewer:** Okay what kind of training were you given by the
Ecogen?

**Interviewee:** Yes, we had training. The training was mostly about how
and what to feed the digester with, use of effluent and how to replace a
filter.

**Interviewer:** How many were trained?

**Interviewee:** They trained my family as well as the team that helps
us with the work.

**Interviewer:** How prepared to run operate the reactor did you feel
you were?

**Interviewee:** I felt prepared but not only because of the train but
also for the knowledge from the internet. There are so many things I
have learnt from the internet that even Ecogen did not explain to me.
For example, about using a jumping castle as a harvesting bag, that
thing Ecogen did not mention. But, because of my interest in biogas I
have been able to learn more about biogas, and I'm always looking for
way to improve my biogas system.

**Interviewer:** You have said you chose have a reactor here because of
you interest in biogas, your desire to help the community, and of course
to be able to use it for energy as well as agriculture. Apart from what
I have said, is there anything else why you chose to build a digester
here?

**Interviewee:** Aaaah, that's all.

**Interviewer:** Okay, how did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? (I.e. cook)

**Interviewee:** We were using Liquid Petroleum Gas as well as firewood
and charcoal.

**Interviewer:** How did you manage your manure waste before the
intervention?

**Interviewee:** We were doing nothing with the manure because we didn't
have the capacity to transfer it to our farms to be used as manure. But,
we had the desire to use it as manure.

**Interviewer:** Ok, how did the system work after commissioning?

**Interviewee:** At first, it wasn't as it now; it was just manure and
water in the digester bag. The bag wasn't inflated as it now. We were
told that it would inflate after some time and gas will be produced.
They also said, we will see gas bubbles in one of bucket after sometime,
that's how we will know that they system has started working.

**Interviewer:** How long did they say it will take for the system to
start working?

**Interviewer:** It stayed about 3 weeks.

**Interviewer:** So after 3 weeks it worked?

**Interviewer:** Yes, after 3 weeks it worked, however it got deflated
after a little time.

**Interviewer:** How?

**Interviewee:** I believe it wasn't really ready. I mean what they
meant was that after 3 weeks the system was going to able to produce gas
and flame to cook with.

**Interviewee:** How much gas does it produce?

**Interviewee:** We haven't done the calculations to know how much gas
it produces. And for me to be able to know how much gas it produces I
may need to have a storage bag. But I believe after some time I will be
able to know how much gas it produces because for now I have not stayed
with it for long enough, only four months.

**Interviewer:** How do you use the gas?

**Interviewee:** We are only using it for cooking.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what are the operation requirements?

**Interviewee:** We use manure and water.

**Interviewer:** Where do you get manure?

**Interviewee:** We have a barn behind.

**Interviewer:** How many cattle do you have?

**Interviewee:** We have 6 cows -- three big ones and 3 small ones.

**Interviewer:** Do they generate enough manure for the digester?

**Interviewee:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** How much manure do you feed the digester?

**Interviewee:** We put a 40 litre bucket of manure every day

**Interviewer:** How much water do you add?

**Interviewee:** We add 80 litres of water. One bucket of manure, we add
two buckets of water. Two buckets of manure against four buckets of
water.

**Interviewer:** How did you prepare that feedstock?

**Interviewee:** We mix manure and water then stir the mixture. After
that, we remove trash from the mix like stone, plastic paper and all
that. Let me show you how we do it. When we have manure like this, we
can't remove trash directly from the manure, it\`s difficult to do. So
we add water them stir, Afterward, we removes all the trash that come on
top on the mixture.

**Interviewer:** Who was responsible for feeding the digester?

**Interviewee:** It is me, and the workers.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee:** When it blocks or fails Ecogen will come to fix the
problem because we have an agreement in place on maintenance issues.

**Interviewer:** What's agreement?

**Interviewee:** We have a ten year warranty with them. So, if the
digester malfunctions it is the Ecogen\`s duty to come and fix without
charge.

**Interviewer:** Ten years? Do you genuinely believe that they will
honour that agreement?

**Interviewee:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** Why?

**Interviewee:** They are professionals and a legit company so I have to
take them by their word. They said they will fix anything within 10
years if it ever has a problem. So, I don't have to doubt them.

**Interviewer:** What was the form of agreement, verbal or written?

**Interviewee:** Verbal.

**Interviewer:** Without Ecogen, are you in a position where you can be
able to fix it on your own?

**Interviewee:** Mmmh, no.

**Interviewer:** Okay, Does it meet your needs?

**Interviewee:** At the moment, no.

**Interviewer:** How?

**Interviewee:** The biogas digester has only been installed so it
hasn't reached its peak but with time it will pick up. Also, the weather
at the moment is no ideal; we are hoping that in the summer everything
will be okay. Because, I believe bacterial activity and metabolism is
best during hot season.

**Interviewer:** So, when you want cook, how long do you use it?

**Interviewee:** I use it the whole day where the whole day shall mean
breakfast and supper time. We don't normally eat lunch so we don't use
it around lunch time.

**Interviewer:** Okay, what challenges did you encounter apart from what
you have already discussed?

**Interviewee:** We are currently experiencing low pressure. But, I
don't take it as a problem; I see it as an opportunity to learn, so it's
not a problem. I can conclusively say there is no problem - it's just
that I'm a time where I'm getting the much needed experience to learn
and improve the biogas.

**Interviewer:** You say low pressure does exist, and clearly that's a
problem, but you say it's not a problem but an opportunity, what do you
mean?

**Interviewee:** When we start the biogas, it doesn't produce enough
heat or flame on the stove to cook food, so to address this we put a bag
on top of the digester bag to increase pressure and flame or heat at the
stove, so you can see at the end of the day, we are still able to use it
as much as we want it -- so to me it\`s not a challenge.

**Interviewer:** In the 4 months you have had it has it ever stopped
working?

**Interviewee: No.**

**Interviewer:** Why do you think in the four month you been able to
keep it working, because that's not an easy feat use it for 4 months,
some do not last even last a month?

**Interviewee:** I believe we are able to handle it with care. Also, I
think our design is durable. But, I think it's all about durability of
the system because you can use some with carefully but if the system is
not durable it breaks down.

**Interviewer:** You have said you are currently facing low pressure
challenges. So have you tried to reach out to Ecogen to fix the problem?
What have you done?

**Interviewee:** I have never talked to them about the problem because I
sincerely believe it not their fault in term of its installation but
it's that the system has yet hit the ground running yet. But, it will
hit the ground running and work perfectly with time. And when I get fed
up with trying my own ways of fixing it that's when I will reach out to
them.

**Interviewer:** Okay, it has taken almost 4 months and that's a
considerable time for any person especially for someone who has bought
new equipment and it's having issues, and luckily enough has a warranty.
So how long will it take you to say it's a problem, let me consult the
installers? What will it take?

**Interviewee:** From the experience I have had with the biogas
digester, I think I will not reach out to them because it's improving. I
see a massive improvement from how it was performing during the first
months and now. The issue of gas pressure is slowly declining. For
example, one time the bag got fully inflated and gas pressure was
perfect, but I don't know if I was right or wrong, I stopped feeding it.
Because, when the digester bag is full it produces what we call bio
slurry so I was waiting for it to release more and more bio slurry so
that it would create enough space for me to be able to collect more gas
at the top and eventually increase gas pressure. Thus, I can see it\`s
improving, and I don't see myself calling them because it\`s going to
work.

**Interviewer:** But when it keeps on producing low pressure, when are
you going to say enough is enough?

**Interviewee:** The change is not significant enough -- but I'm able to
see the difference, and I'm sure it will pick up.

**Interviewer:** Have you seen something like this (show table of
interventions)? What do you think about this kind of information and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee:** I think the information is good and it would help.

**Interviewer:** How?

**Interviewee:** I think the information would eliminate assumptions and
speculations. The information would help to get to facts and help users
to troubleshoot problem easily. This would help solve problems promptly.
And I think this information is better than going to the internet
because it's clearly and specific hence easy to follow.

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) what's the problem of assuming and
speculating?

**Interviewee:** (Laughs) they lead to wrong decisions and conclusions
most of the times. For example, we might be saying our digester is
producing low pressure because it is relative new. But, the opposite
might be true. It might be that new biogas system produce high pressure
(Laughs)

**Interviewer:** How would you describe the current state of the
digester?

**Interviewee:** I will rate it on a scale of 10. So, it's 6 or 7 out of
10.

**Interviewer:** Why do you say its 6 or 7? Why not give it a 10?

**Interviewee:** The problem is what I have already talked about, low
pressure. Of course, it could be because we had or we have high
expectation about it. It could be that we read wrong literature. As you
are aware, biogas system come in different shapes and sizes, so it could
be that what I read doesn't necessarily fit this one. As a result, what
I get is not what I'm supposed to get. All in all, it's 6 or 7 out of 10
for me.

**Interviewer:** Where do you get the information?

**Interviewee:** On the internet.

**Interviewer:** In your opinion, what has caused it to be in this
current state?

**Interviewee:** Like I have said when you feed a digester with first
feedstock, it doesn't start working on the spot; it takes time for it to
start producing gas. For instance, it takes 3 or 4 weeks for feedstock
to decompose and start producing gas. After that you feed it every now
and again, so my think is that decomposition of the first feed didn't
happen as it supposed to happen. It could also be we are missing
something. Yet, I don't think I'm doing anything wrong, because whatever
Ecogen advised be, I do. Whatever information I learn on the internet, I
practice. But like I said it will pick out because sometimes the
digester produces adequate pressure like for 3 or 5 days or so. That's
why I'm looking for harvesting bags to be able to store and use the gas
when pressure is low.

**Interviewer:** What's stopping you acquiring harvesting bags right
now?

**Interviewee:** It's because of financial problems. I have many
projects running at the moment. But, I'm in the process of getting
harvesting bag, like I have mentioned I'm searching for cheap things
which I can use in place of genuine harvesting bags**.**

**Interviewer:** How much does a harvesting bag cost?

**Interviewee:** I have never had a chance to ask, and I have seen
people on the internet using tyre tube. So, I might use a tyre tube, but
at the moment I haven't gone deeper about it, so I don't know

**Interviewer:** We are going towards the end; we have about 20%
remaining. What will you do for energy it fails now? Or

**Interviewee**: I will go to Liquid Petroleum Gas because it doesn't
harm the environment as firewood.

**Interviewer:** Sure, if it fails completely, how will you manage your
waste?

**Interviewee:** We will just leave the manure idle.

**Interviewer:** How much labour do you think went into building
digging?

**Interviewee:** It was four people

**Interviewer:** Masonry?

**Interviewee:** It was 2 people. Of course, it's not complete. I would
like to build a fence to prevent animals and children from encroaching
to protect it as well as prevent human and animal injuries.

**Interviewer:** Was there any other work?

**Interviewee:** No, that was all.

**Interviewer:** What kinds of special items had to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee:** I had prior knowledge about biogas digesters, and from
my knowledge I don't think something like this can be made here in
Malawi

**Interviewer:** Why do you say that?

**Interviewee:** I don't mean if we want to we can't, but this one
certainly wasn't made here in Malawi, and you can tell by looking at the
digester itself, it's written manufactured in Kenya.

**Interviewer:** Okay, since you started using the digester, has the
reactor save you money in terms of energy consumption?

**Interviewee:** I can say the reactor has not only helped me save money
it has also helped me make money. Like I said, the reactor produces
effluent that is used as manure, and luckily enough I have managed to
sell about 120 Litre of effluent to farmers from within the community.

**Interviewer:** How much does a litre cost?

**Interviewee:** I have set a standard price, but I was selling 20 litre
of effluent at K3500. And I'm sure I will google the real value of
effluent so that I can set a reasonable price. But, before I do that I
want to do an experience with the effluent. I'm thinking of having two
pieces of land of equal size. I will grow maize on both, but I will
apply effluent on one side and apply fertilizer on the other side. Then,
at the end, I will be able to know the real cost and value of the
effluent by comparing it with fertilizer it terms of yield. After that
that's when I will know if K3500 per 20L is a good bargain for me or
them, and then I will make a proper adjustment.

**Interviewee:** Okay, great. Okay, before the reactor, how much LPG gas
were you using?

**Interviewee:** Initially, I had a 9 Kg cylinder, and then I bought a
14 kg cylinder after I bought the reactor. At first 9 kgs of LPG gas was
taking about a month. Now, 14kgs of LPG gas takes about 2 months and 2
weeks. But, our plan is to stop using LPG gas completely, and I'm sure
we will do it.

**Interviewer:** We are going towards the end of our interview. We are
remaining with two questions. What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee:** I have a lot to say about biogas, and if I can say all
of it would takes us the whole day.

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) I have the whole day, talk to me.....

**Interviewee:** Firstly I would say, if a farmer is serious about
farming and wants to be productive he should have a biogas digester. He
should have a biogas because he will be able to use waste to produce
energy for cooking as well as generate manure which he can use as manure
for agriculture purpose. Also, he will not only be able to use the
by-product as manure, but he can also sell the by-product making it an
income generating product. Also, cattle manure releases methane into the
atmosphere which cause ozone layer depletion which has serious
consequence on health of people including the farmers themselves. It's
hard to envision this, but it has happens and it is happening. So,
biogas is very crucial in alleviating environmental impacts, and we
shouldn't be saying gas emissions from vehicles are the major culprits
of ozone layer depletion, its manure waste which is the major culprits.
So, as farmers, we should do our bit to reduce environmental impacts
which affects us in many ways, for instance, it terms of climate change
which cause prolonged drought which has serious repercussions on farming
activities. Thus, every farmer should have a digester, and it's a must.
In a society, not everyone can manage to have a digester, but most
farmers can have one, so we should have one to help those that don't
have the capacity to own a digestor to protect the environment. On the
issue of reckless cutting down of trees and smoke emission due to use of
firewood, such things are not easily to imagined, it's just like pouring
one litre of oil into a lake, it still pollutes the water. Thus, when a
person cuts down a tree or use firewood the impact it has on the
environment is beyond measure. But, people don't know the magnitude of
damage they are doing to the environment and to themselves by cutting
down a tree -- They don't know that it's a chain, and it affects
everybody.

**Interviewer:** Last one, if you could have designed your own waste or
energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee:** I don't know if I will answer your question as it
supposed to be answer because it's a tricky one. If I'm given a chance
to choose my own waste or energy intervention, I would choose 2 or 3
interventions. First, I would choose a system that is user friendly, not
hazardous. Of course, I'm not say other intervention are hazards and
dangerous, but a system that doesn't seem hazardous and has all the
qualities I have said is biogas system -- whether it be a fixed domed or
bag digester. So, personally, I would still choose biogas as an energy
intervention as well as waste intervention. Also, I'm thinking of trying
my own energy intervention, as you can see there; I have a bag full of
plastic bags and bottles. I have collecting them because I want to build
a system to be able to produce gas.

**Interviewer:** Ooh okay, how?

**Interviewee:** Okay, I don't have all the information, but I can share
with you a little information I have so you can understand what I'm try
to do. First you should know that all plastic come from oil. So, this
technically means that plastic can be reverted back to oil.

**Interviewer:** Okay how?

**Interviewee:** There is a process called polyposis -- this is a
plastic separation process which uses heat -- this means that you can
separate plastic into 4 products using heat. It's a simple process that
burns plastic in a reactor. Thus, when you burn plastic in a reactor it
produces vapour. The vapour is then condensed and becomes crude oil.
When you burn plastic in the reactor with little heat it produces
petrol. When you burn it with very high heat it produces diesel. Also,
when you are producing crude oil at the end system you can put an outlet
to release pressure at the end of the tube; the pressure which comes out
at the end of it is Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) which can be stored and
use for cooking. Thus, the system produces crude oil which is petrol and
diesel, and LPG. And also, the reactor produces char, the hard material
from the plastic as a by-product which can be used briquettes for
cooking.

**Interviewer:** Oh nice. I want to see your perspective of our study,
our study like I said is trying to find out why many digesters fail, as
a matter of fact, many have a very short life span. I'm thinking of
digesters in Mulanje prison and in Chikwawa which completely failed in
less than 2 months. What's your take? Why do you think many digesters
fail or would fail?

**Interviewee:** I can't comment much on failures because I don't know
the reasons for the failures, I don't know the design or the feedstock
and all that. But, what I can say people are optimistic about biogas,
yet we are failing because of a number of reasons. I feel money and
investment is not a problem here, but people are lacking expertise and
the information. Still, it's difficult to say why many are failing. It
could also be that most people don't have reliable sources of manure so
they are dependent on people. It's a real challenge, I remember I ran
out of manure once, and I reached out to friend, but I was so
disappointed with the manure. It was full of debris and sand that it
wasn't good for the digester. I think the key to success is, having a
good barn made of concrete so that one is able to harvest enough and
quality manure for the digester, And also you have to understand that
this is a new thing to many Malawians, and biogas is still in its
infancy stage so we are still learning about the technology -- so with
time we will be able to get things right.

**Interviewer:** Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee:** Wonderful.
