**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 10**

**Date: July 19, 2022**

**Interviewer:** First question, where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee:** The digester was brought by a certain man from
Lilongwe. I believe he made an agreement with my boss to install it
here. When he came here he advised us to dig two holes and place the
digester bag in one of the holes. Then, we did put feedstock and add
water in the digester bag, maybe around two drums (200 liters) of water.
And now, we put water and feedstock in the digester regularly so that
the digester produces gas for cooking.

**Interviewer:** So this guy who came from Lilongwe, do you know him? Do
you know his name? And, did he come as an individual or a company?

**Interviewee**: The man has a company.... I don't know the name of the
company, but my boss knows the name of his company.

**Interviewer:** I believe it's Ecogen. Did the man come alone or he
came with his team?

**Interviewee**: He came with two people.

**Interviewer:** So, this digester was built by 3 people, the owner and
his two workers..... Where did we money come from?

**Interviewee:** The money for the construction of this digester was
provided by my boss.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay. So, during the construction phase, how many
people were involved? I'm seeing three people from Ecogen, was there
anyone else involved in the installation or construction phase?

**Interviewee**: No, no one else.

**Interviewer**: Should we say you did not support them in any way?

**Interviewee**: We only supported them in digging and placing of the
digester bag in the hole. The rest of the work, for instance, fitting
and assembling of the digester was done by the installers. So, after we
dug and placed the bag we only observed, and they were explaining some
of the things as they assembling the digester. For example, they told us
how a digester functions, how to operate it, and how to make a digester
produce more gas and fire.

**Interviewer**: What did they say you should be doing to ensure that
it\`s producing of plenty of gas?

**Interviewee**: The issue is about feeding - the digester needs to be
fed frequently. And the other thing was that a digester works well on
sunny days; on a cold day, it doesn't produce gas as on a hot day and
the bag doesn\'t get full as you see now. But, on a sunny day like this,
the bag gets full to a point that all of us here can sit on it and still
not get deflated to the ground. Also, they advised us to feed it twice a
week -- Mondays and Fridays. But, after using for some time, they told
us that we can be feeding it three times \[a week\] - Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, in order to make it produce more gas. They also told us that
the more we feed it, the more effluent we would get at the outlet, and
that the effluent can be as fertilizer. So, we use the effluent as
fertilizer in our vegetable garden and for the flowers as well.

**Interviewer:** We\'ll talk more about the effluent as we progress, but
for the time being let\'s focus on the digester. Apart from helping the
installers in digging and all that is there anything else you did? What
other role did you play?

**Interviewee:** That was what we didn't that time. Now, I basically
ensure that it is producing gas on a daily basis.

**Interviewer:** So, what do you do to ensure that you have gas on a
daily basis?

**Interviewee**: We use food waste, for instance, cabbages, tomatoes,
banana skins, avocados. And, there we have a mixer which we use for
grinding the feedstock. After grinding the feedstock, we transfer it
into a bucket and wait for some days to decompose. Then, we add 20
liters of water to 10 kg of feedstock -- if we fill a 20 liter bucket
with feedstock, then we add 40 liters of water, and then we feed it into
the digester.

**Interviewer:** So it\`s a 1:2 ratio. Uh, before the biogas came here,
did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee:** As far as I\'m concerned, I did not know anything about
biogas. I became aware of biogas when the installers came. When they
came they basically mentioned that we would save a lot of things. So,
after they explained everything, I was personally convinced that biogas
is good, because with biogas you don't need firewood to cook, and also
in the course of using it you conserve the environment.

**Interviewer:** It would save a lot of things, what things?

**Interviewee**: For example, the time we lose in chopping and drying
wood for cooking, and of course now, we are not cutting trees. We are
only using waste for cooking; now, we are using food waste, dog manure
and cow dung for cooking -- for sure.

**Interviewer:** So after the installers came, what were your
expectations?

**Interviewee:** We expected to benefit from this because it's a good
innovation for cooking. So, we expected that we would not be required to
search for firewood for cooking, or spend money to get energy for
cooking. So, we saw this as a free gift in a sense that the things we
were throwing away, or gathering for city council to come, collect, and
dispose, would be used for cooking.

**Interviewer:** How else did you expected to benefit from this? Which
things did you expect to benefit?

**Interviewee:** We expected to benefit in terms of cooking, and I have
to say this thing has made cooking easy, way easier than gas we buy in
the markets \[LPG gas\]. The fire which digesters produce is more
intense than \[LPG\] gas, which we buy from Afrox. So, I see that biogas
is faster than LPG

**Interviewer**: How did you know about Afrox gas \[LPG gas\]?

**Interviewee:** I came to know about Afrox gas \[LPG gas\] because
before the digester came, our boss used to give us LPG to use for
cooking. So, we are now able to differentiate the two in regard to
cooking time because we have used them both. LPG takes longer than
biogas. This thing requires little time to cook food.

**Interviewer:** Which things do you normally cooking?

**Interviewee**: We mostly cook nsima. The pot which we use for cooking
nsima \[hard porridge\] is huge and thick, and to use that on LPG gas
stove it would take one hour -- from 12 to 1 o'clock. But, if we use
biogas, it takes 20 minutes to cook everything.

**Interviewer:** Oh, that\'s fast. So, your main expectation was that
you would be able to cook easily - is there anything else you expected?

**Interviewee:** I expected and saw this as a way of protecting the
environment, of course.

**Interviewer:** Can you tell me about that?

**Interviewee:** I would say, normally, if you want to eat you need
fire. So when there is no charcoal, you can't eat; when there is no
firewood, you can\'t eat. Thus, if you want to eat you need to go to the
forest and fetch firewood, or you need to buy charcoal -- you simply
need a tree to eat. Thus, when we buy charcoal, it\`s less like we are
encouraging charcoal makers to destroy the environment. So, we saw this
as a good cooking technology that would protect the environment as it
doesn't use trees. And, I hoped that it will lessen rainfall shortages.

**Interviewer:** I'm impressed. How did you learn this?

**Interviewee:** On that I can say I did not learn this from anyone
else, but it\'s just how I perceive things. As you can see, we have
climate change - the weather is changing unexpectedly, so I think we are
having this problem, obviously because we are destroying the
environment. For instance, when I look back to the time I was young and
now, I can see that rainfall pattern nowadays is erratic. In the past,
when the environment was intact, around this time we used to have
showers and it's not happening anymore.

**Interviewer:** How are you connecting rainfall and the environment?

**Interviewee**: I\'m saying this because we have plenty of vegetation
during the rainy season. You can't have vegetation without rains. So,
they are always connected in one way or the other, and they always
affect each other.

**Interviewer**: Where did you learn this or is anyone is supposed to
know this?

**Interviewee**: There\'s nothing l learned from anyone. But it\'s just
the way I think, and the way I see things

**Interviewer:** You expected this digester to assist in protecting the
environment and at the same time to help you in terms of cooking. Is
there anything else which you were told to expect by the installers from
the digesters?

**Interviewee:** There was nothing else excerpt that I expect this thing
to last over a hundred year, long as we manage it properly. For example,
we were told not to feed the feedstock with chemicals, for instance, we
are not supposed to use dog manure from a dog that has been vaccinated
for a period of less than a month. Also, we are not supposed to use or
put soap in the feedstock or digester -- Soap kills digesters. We are
not supposed to use onions and the outer skin of a lemon as feedstock
too because they contain acids that kill bacteria.

**Interviewer**: When they said this thing can last more than one
hundred years, did you believe them?

**Interviewee**: According to my experience with it, I can say it can
last more than that.

**Interviewer**: You mean all of us here will die and leave this thing
functioning?

**Interviewee**: Jesus Christ in his second coming will find this and
the people after will use this.

**Interviewer:** (Laughs) that's a strong statement!

**Interviewee:** (laughs) I\'m saying this because the system is able to
flush out the liquids on its own. So, it's more less like it cleans and
rejuvenates itself. But, if it wasn't flushing out the liquids, then I
would have said it won't last 100 years.

**Interviewer**: I must say you have great belief in this thing. Did you
receive any training by the installers?

**Interviewee**: No, I did not receive any training -- But, I only
received instructions. And, they said, if we follow the instructions, we
will be able to use this for a very long time, and we will not desire to
buy and use charcoal, LPG and firewood for cooking again.

**Interviewer**: Can you elaborate on receiving instructions?

**Interviewee**: We can say they kept some information from us. They
only gave us information regarding how this thing works. But, I feel
like we were supposed to learn more, like how to disassemble and put the
entire thing together, and how it started to reach this point. So, I
think we were not enlightened enough, because they had assembled some of
the equipment beforehand, and didn't tell us how to put the accessories
together. But, when we saw some of the accessories, we felt that we
could easily find them in the local markets -- so if we got trained on
its assembly, I believe we would have been motivated to look for the
other things and even be able to assemble or fix it too.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay. What kind of training did you require? I
mean, in your view, how would you describe a training as a proper
training for a digester?

**Interviewee**: Okaaay, I desire to be taught how I can fix it when it
malfunctions, but we were not taught how we can fix it once it
malfunctions. Thus, when it breaks we have no choice, but to call the
installers to come and fix this. So, I think it would have been proper
for them to teach us how to fix some of the issues. Just like a car,
when it is producing too much gas at the exhaust, we know it's the
rings, so we just replace them. Same thing, they should have told us how
to troubleshoot some of the issues, and then we could have been doing
the rest.

**Interviewer**: You know these people are in business, and I'm sure you
know the success of this rest on maintenance and repairs. Why didn\'t
you ask the installers to teach you things regarding maintenance and
repairing?

**Interviewee**: I must admit we made a mistake, we should have asked
them. We were only asking petty questions. But, the good thing is that
we still call them to ask questions and we can call them to come to fix
some of the issues. For example, one time I observed that there water in
the pipes, and when I switched it on, it didn't work because gas was not
reaching the stove. When we called them, they said we should examine the
pipes for water -- and when we found the water, they told us to remove
the water, and when we did it started working again. So from that
experience, I learnt that water blocks gas in the pipes of a digester --
So, this was like how a flush toilet works, they put water at the base
of the bowl to prevent foul smell from the tank to come into the house.
So in the same way water in the pipes of a digester blocks the flow of
gas.

**Interviewer**: What do you think caused that?

**Interviewee**: It's because when gas is passing through the pipes it
drops moist which accumulates to water, and eventually it blocks the air
-- I mean, everywhere gas passes, water accumulates over time.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so what specific instructions did you receive?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, we were instructed that we should not feed
the system with anything which contains chemicals, because that kills
bacteria in the digester. Also, the digester uses heat energy to produce
gas, so when there are chemicals in the system, the water in the bag
does not heat and boil to produce steam which is basically the gas use.

**Interviewer**: Okay. Let me be clear on this because this is very
important. You know for this thing to function for 100 year you need to
know how to fix it. Why didn't you ask that time? You did think about
it, or what?

**Interviewee:** We believe the instructions - We believed what they
told us in regards to what they told us to do and not. And, we believed
that if we follow the instructions, then the system is going to last
hundred years. But, if we don't follow the instructions, then the system
is not going to last long. So, we thought this will take hundred years,
and the way we had seen it working, it can really last that long. So,
the point is that we should not feed the digester with huge pieces of
feedstock in order to make sure it goes get blocked or filled up.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay, I understand. In your opinion, why do you
think your boss choose to have the digester here?

**Interviewee**: Our boss saw that we were losing a lot of money in
buying gas. In a day we only cook once, but still we managed to use one
gas cylinder of LPG gas.

**Interviewer**: How big is the bottle or container?

**Interviewee**: It's this big wide and this tall. It's not big.

**Interviewer**: Maybe 4 or 6 kg LPG gas, so you used to use that in a
month?

**Interviewee**: Yes, and right now our boss is not losing any money on
cooking. If he's paying for anything, then maybe it's only on water
bills for the water we use for make feedstock for the digester. But, in
regards to directly spending money on energy needs, I don't think he is
spending anything because we are strictly using food waste as feedstock
for the digester, which were previously disposing of and was city
council used to come, collect, dispose of.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I learned about biogas when they installer came to
install our digester here.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: We were buying gas \[LPG gas\]

**Interviewer**: Do you use electric cookers?

**Interviewee**: No, no, we use LPG gas cylinders which we connect to a
stove.

**Interviewer**: And, in a month you were using one gas cylinder?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: I think it\'s about 6kg -- We also use something
similar at our place too. So, apart from LPG gas, what else were you
using?

**Interviewee**: Nothing else.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: Before biogas we used to use the feedstock to make
manure for our garden. So, after it came, we started collecting the
feedstock, chop it up, and then use it as feedstock for the digester.

**Interviewer**: How were you preparing your manure for the garden?

**Interviewee**: We had big tractor tyres which we cut open, so we used
to gather feedstock in the tyres, and then add water. After some time we
were getting the decomposed feedstock, and then use it as fertilizer for
the garden. To make it efficient, we used to put worms in the tyres to
speed up the decomposing process.

**Interviewer**: So you were putting all your waste on the tyre?

**Interviewee**: No, it was only food waste. As for other waste, we
gather it in a sack bag and then transfer it with that car over there to
a big site where they make compost.

**Interviewer**: When was this installed?

**Interviewee**: It has not been more than one year -- almost one year
now.

**Interviewer**: Do you know how much gas is produce?

**Interviewee**: Eh, it's a lot of gas - It's a lot.

**Interviewer**: Can you quantify how much gas you get from it?

**Interviewee**: If the bag is full as it is now, we can cook nsima and
side dish, and leave some gas in the bag. And, the next day, we will
find the bag full. But this happens when we are feeding it more often.
And, if we don't feed it, we find the bag as we left it the previous
day. But, if we feed it again, the bag gets full again. And that's why
in the beginning they advised us to feed it regularly.

**Interviewer**: How often do you feed it?

**Interviewee**: It's not like I have a schedule. I just feed it
according to my feeling, but in a week I try to feed it four times.

**Interviewer**: How do you use the gas? Is it for cooking only?

**Interviewee**: We just use it for cooking only.

**Interviewer**: How many people use it?

**Interviewee**: It's three or four people.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you use to start it up?

**Interviewee**: On the first day, after we had put water in the
digester bag, we fed it with four containers of free cow manure. We used
those black containers over there.

**Interviewer**: The black container which is usually used for waste
collection \[100 liters\]?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. Then they told us that we could start feeding it
with food waste, dog manure, and any other biodegradable things.

**Interviewer**: Like what?

**Interviewee**: We have avocado trees within the compound, so we use
spoiled avocados as feedstock. So, when we gather all the feedstock, we
grind it in a mixer, take out the feedstock put it in bucket, and then
wait for it to decompose. After it is decomposed, we take it out and add
water, and then mix it thoroughly before pouring it in the digester.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock do you usually feed it with?

**Interviewee**: After the feedstock has decomposed we weigh it on a
scale. So, we add 20 liters of water to 5 kg of feedstock. If we take 10
kg of feedstock, we add 40 liters of water.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how do you mix the feedstock after it has
decomposed?

**Interviewee**: At first we used to wear gloves and then mix it
together, but we didn't feel comfortable. So, now we use something like
a bloom for mixing the feedstock. And, when the feedstock is thoroughly
mixed to a point where it's thick as yoghurt we feed the digester.

**Interviewer**: I understand the green mixer or grinder has only been
installed.

**Interviewee**: At first we used to feed the digester with large
particles of feedstock, so our boss thought that we would fill up the
bag quick and even block the system. So, he bought a grinder to
breakdown the feedstock before it is put in the digester bag. For
example, before the mixer we were even feeding the digester with pieces
of avocados seeds. But now we grind the avocado to a paste and feed the
digester.

**Interviewer**: So initially grinder was not part of the system?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to bring it after the digester was
installed?

**Interviewee**: It came after 7 months.

**Interviewer**: Why did it take so long to bring it?

**Interviewee**: We got it after the system got blocked one day. That
day when we were pouring the feedstock into the digester bag the
feedstock was not going in via the inlet pipe. Then, it took some effort
to unblock it, and after that our boss decided to get a grinder/mixer.

**Interviewer**: And, how did you unblock it?

**Interviewee**: I told me boss about it, and he called the installers.
They told us unblock it by poking through the inlet**.**

**Interviewer**: Where exactly?

**Interviewee**: You just need to see it; okay I'll see it at the end.

**Interviewer:** Who is responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I'm responsible.

**Interviewer**: Is it just you or some other guys do feed it as well?

**Interviewee**: There are a few workers here, but I'm the one who
mostly interacts with it.

**Interviewer**: Why is it that the responsibility is basically on you?

**Interviewee**: That's a difficult question, but I will still answer
it. I think the responsibility falls on me because I'm a garden boy, and
most people views us a dumpsite -- people think we can literally handle
anything. Sometimes the other workers refuse to handle feedstock because
it produces foul smell. So, because I'm a garden boy they thinking I can
do any kind of work.

**Interviewer**: Does it produce foul smell?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it does.

**Interviewer**: I think the things are always covered....

**Interviewee**: We wait for the feedstock to decompose before mixing it
with water. So you know how decomposed things smell -- I'll show you and
you will see how nice.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice. What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: We just need to feed it with care as we were advised by
the installers. For example, we don't need to feed it with items we were
advised not to feed it with. So if we do that, then everything is okay.

**Interviewer**: You have said you are the one who mostly interacts with
it. If it malfunctions, will you be able fix it?

**Interviewee**: If gas is not coming at the stove, I'm able to fix
that.

**Interviewer**: How do you solve that?

**Interviewee**: The system has a filter which looks like a steel mess
wire scourer, so if there is no gas at the stove, we just replacing the
filter. Basically, what happens is that, when a filter is contaminated,
it blocks the flow of gas -- I'll show where the filter is located.

**Interviewer**: That's so nice of you. What other problem can you
solve?

**Interviewee**: I can only solve that problem. The thing is a digester
is simple and very easy to maintain because it doesn't have many issues.

**Interviewer**: If there is a leakage on the bag, can you fix that?

**Interviewee**: If there is a leakage on the bag, then there is nothing
we can do. So, what we do is we just ensure that there is no item around
it that can puncture it.

**Interviewer**: You have said you know how to remove and replace a
filter, how did you learn this?

**Interviewee**: They told us that when there's little or no gas at the
stove there are two issues to look at. First, it's the issue of water
log in the system. And, when there is no water in the pipes, then we
should take out the filter and replace it.

**Interviewer**: Is that not training? (Laughs)

**Interviewee**: That's school indeed (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) why are you saying there was no training?

**Interviewee**: We expected to sit down, take paper and pen like in a
class, and then learn this thing thoroughly. (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you could have asked your boss to buy you pen and
paper (Laughs). Does it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it's meeting our needs because we cook on it and
eat daily. With LPG gas there were certain times we could not eat.

**Interviewer**: Oh, so sometimes you could not eat because you ran out
of LPG gas?

**Interviewee**: The thing with LPG gas is we didn\'t know how much gas
we had left until it was finished. So, when it was finished our boss
would say we were supposed to inform him well in advance to buy the gas.
The thing is when we told him, he needed time to go and buy the gas. You
can't get LPG gas right away like Escom electricity token. So that was a
challenge. Now we don't face that problem. And, when we face that
problem it means I didn't feed it.

**Interviewer**: What challenges are there?

**Interviewee**: The problem is that we don't get enough gas when there
is no sun. But, if the sun is out, we don't have any problem.

**Interviewer**: Okay, has it ever stopped working?

**Interviewee**: No, maybe when we go for holiday. But, long as we are
here it works. When we are on holiday, it just stays. But, then it's
very rare for all us to be on holiday.

**Interviewer**: So, it has never failed for a day?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this kind of information, and do
you think it would have helped?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it's very important because it can eliminate the
challenge of failing to solve a problem because of forgetting some of
the information. So, if there is a problem we can only be rushing to
this information, because it's like a manual book -- a book of
instructions.

**Interviewer**: So do you think you can forget some of the things?

**Interviewee**: As for me, I can't because I'm always interacting with
it.

**Interviewer**: Weren't you given something like that?

**Interviewee**: If we were given, then it's with my boss. I only
remember our boss using a phone to teach us how to make and use
bio-fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: What did you learn?

**Interviewee**: We learned that to use effluent we need to dilute it
with water in 1:2 ratios because it's very strong. You can't use the
effluent directly because it can kill crops and plants, and it's even
strong enough to kill termites.

**Interviewer**: How do you use the bio-fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: We mostly like to use it in a place where there are
termites. So, when I see flowers are not flourishing because of
termites, I apply effluent. For example, this place we are sitting on
was heavily manifested with termites, so I applied it here and all the
termites are gone and will never return.

**Interviewer**: What else do you use the bio-fertilizer for?

**Interviewee**: We use it as fertilizer for our flowers.

**Interviewer**: Do you produce enough?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and at the moment we are keeping some which we
hope to use during the wet season because termites are a problem around
that season. And, they good thing is that we have a pump which helps us
spray the effluent.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of our interview. How
would you describe the current state of your digester?

**Interviewee**: I can say we have not used our digester even 25%. So,
it has a lot of life and years to use it --I can't even say we haven't
even started. I mean, we were given 100 years guarantee, and we have not
used it for more than a year, so that's why I'm saying we haven't even
started.

**Interviewer**: You have said sometimes especially in the wet season
you don\'t get enough gas, what do you do then?

**Interviewee**: We just don\'t use the gas in the morning to make tea,
so that we have enough gas around lunch time.

**Interviewer**: What happens to the tea?

**Interviewee**: We use an electric kettle to make tea.

**Interviewer**: What happened when it blocked?

**Interviewee**: It was only for a day and at that time we had already
cooked. So, I was only feeding it to ensure that we have enough gas for
the next day. When I told my boss about it, he called the installers,
and they just advised us how to unblock it. So, we simply poked the
inlet and removed a big leaf which had blocked it.

**Interviewer**: Let's talk about the finances. How much did the reactor
cost?

**Interviewee**: That I don't know but my boss knows.

**Interviewer**: I think he mentioned something like K600, 000, and he
paid money for it. Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, for example, the pipes and drums because we have
been upgrading it with all sorts of things. For instance, we collect
water in the drum and tank, and sometimes we even put effluent in the
drum, and then spray it in the garden because we have a pump.

**Interviewer**: Interesting! We are remaining with four questions? You
have said three people from Ecogen came to install it, how many people
from your side to part in installation or construction?

**Interviewee**: We did hire a builder, and together we dug the hole.

**Interviewer**: So, who basically did the masonry work?

**Interviewee**: It was the builder, and I supported him.

**Interviewer**: What other work was involved?

**Interviewee**: Nothing else.

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: The digester bag and the membrane which protects the
bag came from outside. As for other things like the fittings they got
them in Blantyre Market.

**Interviewer**: Do you know which country is it?

**Interviewee**: No, I don\'t.

**Interviewer**: Why importing those things? Don't we have them here?

**Interviewee**: I think these things can be found here in Malawi. But,
it looks like he is the first person to do this here in Malawi, and in
my thinking it looks like he's working in partnership with people from
another country, and he's the focal person here.

**Interviewer**: Okay, do you think you are saving money?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, because before the digester we used to buy LPG
gas and now we don't buy.

**Interviewer**: And even the money you were spending on electric kettle
that's also money. In your opinion, how much money are you saving?

**Interviewee**: Taking everything into consideration, I can say we are
saving K60, 000.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I can fervently say biogas is a simple thing, but very
helpful. The only problem is that it's expensive and when I look at the
money my boss paid, I don't think a person like me can afford it. And,
now with how prices of things have gone up, and even if the prices
hadn't gone up, I don't think I could afford it. So, I think biogas is
for the rich, and not for the poor.

**Interviewer**: If you could have designed your own waste or energy
intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: Then, I can think of efficient wood-stoves, or windmill
powered cook stoves because with that you can't be spending any money
besides the installation cost -- And, you would only need to wind, and
wind is always available. And with windmill powered cook-stove you can't
be running around preparing feedstock.

**Interviewer**: What do you think it hasn't come here?

**Interviewee**: I think people are just rooted to using firewood and
charcoal, because that's what our forefathers told us to use for
cooking.

**Interviewer**: Thanks, that was my last question. Do you have anything
to say regarding biogas?

**Interviewee**: I would just say the people who have money should
support people who are less privileged with biogas digesters, so that we
can save the environment - We just need people donate these things in
the communities, because, for example, if we can give these thing to 5
people, then it means we have save 10 or 20 trees, and in a year that's
like 100 trees.

**Interviewer**: That's true. Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
