**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 11**

**Date: July 19, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Thanks for granting us an interview. So, we will
approach the interview as you have said. \[name redacted\] will respond
to questions regarding finances, and the rest of the questions \[name
redacted\] will answer as you think that he is in a better position to
answer the questions because he interacts with it regularly. So, without
further ado, let us go to the question by starting with \[name
redacted\] as she has directed. Firstly, how much did the digester cost?

**Interviewee**: K650000 for the digest itself, and then I paid another
K50000 for the wall building because we built basin around it; both at
the outlet and the basin for the digester itself. And, recently I've
added the greenhouse construction, but I think that should not be
included in this question, right?

**Interviewer**: Uh, no. You can include it.

**Interviewee**: I bought the plastic for K50000, and then we put the
frame in, I would have to check the cost, but it's probably another
K45000 for the iron, and then one day labor for the guy who welded it,
and then three days labor for the tailor who tailored the whole tent
together.

**Interviewer:** How much did you pay the tailor?

**Interviewee:** The tailor got K22500, and the welder think got around
K15000.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how many people were involved in the construction
of the digester? Did Ecogen only build it? Or, you had your workers as
well?

**Interviewee**: Ecogen advised, so they came for two days. Then, \[name
redacted\] and two other people dug the hole. And, then we had a
separate person at some point bricklaying. So that is, what are we now,
four people? Yeah, four people with the advice from Ecogen.

**Interviewer:** How many people came from Ecogen?

**Interviewee**: They came with a team of three people. \[Picks call and
leave\]

**Interviewer**: Okay, how long did it take you to dig?

**Interviewee**: It took us two days.

**Interviewer**: So you were also responsible for digging, \[name
redacted\]?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and because it was weekend, she paid me
overtime... I do not work during the weekend.

**Interviewer**: Oh, very nice (laugh). How much did you receive?

**Interviewee**: That time I got paid K10000 and the other people
received K5000 each.

**Interviewer**: So, K10000 for two days?

**Interviewee**: That was for a day; she paid me K10000 per day, and the
other people were paid K5000 per day.

**Interviewer**: Why was the rate different?

**Interviewee**: She paid me more because I work here and I was
overseeing the other people. Besides, I was person who brought the
people here. Moreover, when I brought them to her she asked them how
much charge her and they said K5000 per day. As for me I didn\'t charge,
she just gave me the rate of K10000 per day. So in two days I pocketed
K20000.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how would you describe the job itself? Was it
tough?

**Interviewee**: Because we were many, the job turned out to be simple.
Also, the place where we dug the holes used to be a keyhole garden, so
soil was not compact as it had been tilled before. And, also because of
previous watering activities, the ground was not hard. So, it would have
taken more time and even more labor if those factors didn't come into
play.

**Interviewer**: Did you know anything about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't know anything about it.

**Interviewer**: So you were surprised to see the digester.

**Interviewer**: Before the installers came, our boss told us about it.
She told us that the installers were installing the digesters to cow
farmers in the villages. But, she told us that the installers were happy
to install the digester here because they thought she could be exemplary
to many, and that even people in this community would adopt the
technology. Then, she told us that we would learn more about it from the
installers when they come. And, when the installers came they told us
about some of the things about biogas as they were assembling it.

**Interviewer**: What did the installers tell you?

**Interviewee**: They told us the dimensions of the two holes. Usually,
a digester has one hole for the digester bag and the other hole for the
digestate. So they explained that when it is fed at the inlet the
feedstock is flushed out into the other hole as digestate.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected our work to lessen. Before biogas, we used
to cook using firewood, so our expectation was that we would stop
searching and using firewood for cooking. The other thing is that our
boss is big on caring for the environment, so she was expecting us to
stop using firewood, even the ones we were gathering after pruning trees
within the compound -- she never liked seeing us using trees
\[firewood\] for cooking. So, she chose to buy biogas because she wanted
to save and protect the environment -- no one cuts a tree here, and
that's why if you move around the compound, you would see a lot of
trees. Therefore, when we got it we expected to save the environment.
Secondly, we were so excited to have a digester to take away the burden
of searching firewood in the wet season. Thirdly, as you know smoke
cause a lot of health complications, so we expected protection from
health issues related to smoke.

**Interviewer**: What health problems do you have in mind?

**Interviewee**: It brings cough-- and the installers said that you
can't say you don't smoke when you burn litter or use firewood for
cooking -- so they labeled as smokers (laughs) -- they said smoking is
not only about lighting up Chingambwe \[unprocessed tobacco\] or puffing
cigarettes -- So, it mean that any type of smoke make people smokers.
So, at the end of the installation we learnt so many things.

**Interviewer**: Do you smoke?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I do not smoke. Since I was born I have never
smoked, and I have never taken alcohol.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel that you were a smoker, when you have
never puffed a cigarette?

**Interviewee**: It did not feel right (laughs). But, it is not bad as
smoking a cigarette or something.

**Interviewer**: So, we learnt many things. For example, we realized
that some of the things, we thought were good were actually bad. So,
without this we couldn't have changed some of our bad behaviors.

**Interviewer**: Which things were you doing wrong, and got corrected?

**Interviewee**: It is about burning waste. At first, I was okay with
it, but now I'm not..... The coming of the digester has not only
enlightened us but has also helped us in many regards, for example,
cooking. Cooking on biogas is very easy and fast. The time we were
wasting on searching firewood we now use for other things. As you know,
we are given one-hour break at lunchtime, so it was not enough when we
were cooking on firewood. So, it meant that we had to take some of our
working hours from our boss. Thus, the time we were supposed to be
working; we were busy eating or cooking.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: We got trained on its operation. Then, we learned about
making feedstock, for example, how to prepare initial feedstock to start
it up, and it's not like you feed it, and then it starts working, no. I
remember this one took about a month to start up.

**Interviewer**: So, you were basically told how to switch it on and
off, and feedstock making?

**Interviewee**: Sure! For example, they also told us the dimensions of
the hole, and then make the hole, for example, they advised us to dig a
hole of 90 cm deep, 250 cm long and 250 cm wide. They also told us that
we needed to build a wall around it to prevent soil from collapsing into
the hole as the soil was loose there since the place used to be a
keyhole garden. So, we made a wall of 2 layers around it. Then, to start
it up with we used 300 liters of water and 8 bags (50kgs) of fresh cow
manure, which had no rubbish and sand because that blocks a digester.

**Interviewer**: Did they teach you about maintenance, or how to fix
some of the issues?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they explained that feeding is what make it block
or not. So, they advised us to feed it with food waste, but to be
careful because some of the things like raw vegetables end up blocking
the inlet. Thus, after some time we made a round thing with hook like
things. The equipment we made has no sharp edges because we didn't want
it to puncture the digester bag; the thing enters inside the digester
bag to gather things that could block the digester; we made this because
at some point the digester blocked, and we managed to unblocked the
digester with that equipment.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the reactor did you feel
you were?

**Interviewee**: We felt that we could run, and after we started using
it, we got more confident because we started understanding it more. And,
we have learned new things that we weren't told in the first place. For
example, to minimize the issue of blocking by rubbish as well as sand,
we soak feedstock and after sometime sieve it with our own made sieve
and then we put the feedstock in a clean bucket. Then, we have also made
our own funnel to ensure that feedstock doesn't spill over. And, also
before feed it we keep the feedstock in a bucket for some time to allow
things such as sand to settle at the bottom of bucket. Then also, we
feed the digester gently and slowly so that the settled things should
remain at the bottom. After that we get the remaining things like the
small pieces of grass and use it for composting.

**Interviewer**: Okay, why do you think she decided to build a digester
there?

**Interviewee**: She bought the digester to reduce LPG gas and
electricity bills, as before the digester we used electricity and LPG
gas for cooking. Thus, if we were using two cylinders of LPG gas, now we
only use one. And, that time she was using an electric cooker, but now
she doesn't use it. Also, before the digester we used to buy organic
fertilizer, but now we don't buy the fertilizer anymore, we use our own
bio-fertilizer. And also we were told by Ecogen that we could use the
effluent as a pesticide, so now we are using effluent as a pesticide in
our gardens. This pesticide does not possess any health risks, and it's
possible to apply the pesticide in the morning and eat vegetables on the
same day - something you can't do with inorganic pesticides, with such
pesticides you wait for a week or two for the vegetables to be edible.
But, this chemical is not hazardous, because it comes from things we
usually eat.

**Interviewer**: How do you make the pesticide?

**Interviewee**: First, we dilute the effluent with water in a ratio of
1:2. Then, we add ginger and pepper to make the pesticide stronger.
Then, we pour the effluent in a sprayer and start spraying the
vegetables.

**Interviewer**: Who told you to add ginger and pepper?

**Interviewee**: Ecogen told us that we could use the effluent as a
pesticide. And, we make the pesticide stronger by adding ginger and
pepper. But, before making the pesticide we even saw that when we used
the effluent as fertilizer, pests were moving away especially when the
sun was hot. I believe it is effective when the sun is out because the
heat facilitates evaporation of the effluent. So, when we made and
applied the bio-pesticide, we even saw a greater effect. Previously, we
had a big challenge of pest as we compost, and to prevent/control it we
used ash. But, it wasn't that effective..... We have always been using
compost as fertilizer, and ash as a pesticide, because my boss does not
entertain the use of organic fertilizer or pesticides at all. So, even
though it wasn't effective we continued doing that because it was an
organic solution we knew.

**Interviewer**: So you were told by Ecogen to add pepper and ginger, or
it's something you thought by yourself?

**Interviewee**: No, we were told by Ecogen again. They were like some
pests are stubborn and can't be controlled by effluent alone, so to
overcome them you need to add ginger and paper.

**Interviewer**: Apart from using ash was there any other solution you
were using to control/prevent the pest?

**Interviewee**: Ah, we were using a traditional method, thus we used to
go line by line to kill the pest physically. But, it was very
challenging to do this on big garden or where we had multiple gardens,
because we were moving from one garden to another. So, the main problem
was that pests where moving from a garden you hadn't been to a garden
where you had already killed the pests (laughs). Thus, to
control/prevent the pests you had to do this all the times, and you
couldn't do other work, as you kept moving back and forth.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? I understand you were using LPG gas and an electric stove,
and even firewood, right?

**Interviewee**: Our boss was using LPG gas and an electric cooker,
because she cannot manage to cook on firewood. But, now she uses biogas
as well. As for us, we were using firewood -- we couldn't go inside to
cook nsima, you know how long it takes to cook a very hard nsima
(laughs)... Now, if you are seen cooking on firewood by our boss, you
get in serious trouble. The only excuse you can give is that biogas is
not working, but other than that there is no other reason that can spare
you. And, she would even try the biogas herself to see if it's not
really working -- and, if she finds it working, you will get in very
serious trouble (laughs)

**Interviewer**: Where were you getting firewood, like you have said you
are not allowed to cut a tree?

**Interviewee**: It's not like we need a lot of firewood because we only
work during the day, so we only prepare lunch. Thus, the dead wood we
get from the trees is sufficient for us. Sometimes, we use firewood from
flower plants and trees after pruning. But, we don't prune all the time,
it's only in May and June of every two years. So, after pruning we dry
and store the firewood. Then, in the wet season we use the firewood for
cooking.

**Interviewer**: So you get all the firewood from the compound?

**Interviewee**: We get all the firewood here, and we don't buy
anywhere.

**Interviewer**: I can imagine that the digester has helped you a
lot....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it has helped our boss to save money, but, I
can't say it has helped me save money, no. It has only helped us
\[workers\] by reducing our workload (laughs).

**Interviewer**: Do you differentiate the taste of food cooked on biogas
and on firewood?

**Interviewee**: No, the taste is the same. But, I can only say that
biogas is faster than cooking on firewood. Cooking on firewood is time
consuming because it takes a lot of time to find firewood itself, and
even for the fire itself to ignite fully. While with biogas, you simply
switch it on and then start cooking.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the digester?

**Interviewee**: We used rabbit and chicken manure to make compost. I
have gone for compost making training before, so I know how to make good
compost. So, to make compost we make a square thing made of bamboo tree,
and then we put leaves and manure, and then sprinkle water. After that
we start another layer with leaves and on top of it we put manure, and
then sprinkle water and so on. Now, we don't use water and manure any
more when making compost, instead we use effluent, and it's more
effective than adding water and manure as it breaks the leaves faster.
The effluent in compost works as manure and water itself, and it also
facilitates the breakdown of the leaves. And, now since we don't use
animal manure for compost, we solely use it for feeding the digester.

**Interviewer**: How do you compare the two composts in terms of
strength?

**Interviewee**: I haven't used the one made of effluent yet, but I'm
planning to take the old vegetables out soon, and then I'll see how
effective it is. I can't and haven't used it on old vegetables because
it will not be a true reflection of the compost.

**Interviewer**: Where did you learn about compost?

**Interviewee**: I have worked as a garden boy for 22 years; 15 years
with the owner of this house who went back to his home country, and
another 7 years with my current boss. They are friends, so I just moved
from one to the other when he was moving. So, this other time my
previous boss enrolled me in a compost making training at Chigumula
\[Crown Ministries\], and also in agriculture training in Ndirande. I'm
very keen in learning things; it's just unfortunate that I don't go with
school.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) why did not you finish school? And, how far
did you go with it?

**Interviewee**: It's because of school fees. I only went as far as
primary school. So, my English is limited and I feel like if I had gone
far with school my boss would have done great things for me. School is
very important, but I have just accepted that such is life -- we can't
all have degrees. But, I only thank God that I have wisdom and an
ability of remembering things. So I hope when I retire I will use the
knowledge then.

**Interviewer**: How did you know that you could use the effluent in
compost as both water and manure?

**Interviewee**: I just thought that myself. When I was making compost
using animal manure and leaves, it was taking 30 days. One time I tried
to make compost using effluent and leaves to establishing the exact time
it takes for the process, and I found out that it takes 20 days to break
down the leaves.

**Interviewer**: Doesn't the effluent go down the leaves since its all
leaves?

**Interviewee**: Oh yeah, I put soil on top of each layer of leaves to
prevent effluent from sipping through the leaves. But, I make sure that
the soil doesn't contain plastics, rubble and other things.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: I can say since it was installed in January up to now,
we have been experiencing cold weather, so we haven't been getting more
gas. And, the installers told us that getting this season we would not
be getting more gas like in summer because bacteria works well in hot
weather.

**Interviewer**: So you are still using conventional methods of cooking.

**Interviewee**: It's only the guards who use firewood because they come
after we have exhausted all the gas. Since sometimes, we see ash around,
so we assume that they use firewood. But we are expecting to get more
gas during summer, and then we can have full information of its
capabilities. And, someone was doing research and he asked me how much
cooking time we are getting from this? I told him that it is difficult
to estimate, because we don't track records of how each person uses it.
For example, I can't know how much my boss uses it, or how the guards
use it. But, we have decided that when the bag gets full to the maximum
and reach its full capacity during summer, every user should be
recording how much time he or she has used it.

**Interviewer**: And, it could be that the guards use the firewood for
warming themselves, and not for cooking....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we can't know whether they use it for cooking or
warming themselves because they come after we have left, and they leave
before we come. So that's why I'm saying it's hard to estimate the
amount of cooking time we are getting from the digester. But, once we
start keeping records we will be in a position to know if we are using
it for two hours or two under half hours

**Interviewer**: Specifically, when are you starting?

**Interviewee**: When the bag has fully risen out of the hole in summer,
I believe that everyone will be able to use it, so it will be easy to
track its capacity. Right now, it is difficult to estimate because
sometimes after our boss has prepared breakfast; it goes off while we
are making our tea. So, we'll find the actual cooking time in summer.

**Interviewer**: You have told me that you used 8 bags (50 kg) of fresh
manure and 3000 liters to start up the digesters, where did you get the
manure?

**Interviewee**: We got the manure from Chikwawa \[more than 44
kilometers one-way\], and it was Ecogen that sourced it. Initially, we
did find cow manure ourselves, but they said it had a lot of rubbish and
wouldn't work. So, we used the manure to make compost. Basically, I was
the one who prepared feedstock by just following their instructions. The
installers couldn't be around because they said they had overstayed and
needed to get back to Lilongwe to do other important things. Of course,
we had 10 bags of fresh cow manure, but they told us that if we see the
digester retaining the feedstock then we should stop. Then, after fed
it, we waited for some time and the digester bag got full, and we were
concerned that it would burst. After that, we started it and we were
excited to see the fire. And, they told us that at the beginning we will
be getting effluent but after some time we will start getting slurry at
the outlet. Also, they said the slurry is a better fertilizer than the
effluent.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We used tap water. But, my boss was concerned that we
used water from the tap as it contains chlorine. She thought the
chlorine would kill the bacteria in the bag (Laughs) -- and I agreed
with her! Then, she also told me I think that chicken dung and food
waste is the best feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: Because chicken manure and nsima leftovers contain a
lot of bacteria, so it's better than cow manure and even rabbit manure.
And, I agreed with her as well, because if you put chicken manure on
maize, it wilts the maize. Then, I asked myself why it does happen like
that, and then I thought it happens because of the bacteria (laughs). In
the same way, if you can take cow manure put it on maize; it does not
wilt the maize because it's not that strong.

**Interviewer**: Oh it's strong. You have told me that someone asked you
about how much cooking time you get from it. I wanted to ask you that
question also, I just kept it, but it was coming....

**Interviewee**: So as I said it is difficult to answer that question
because it has different users and we don't track the cooking time. And,
sometimes we find the stove going off whilst we are cooking. And our
boss told us that if this happens we should go inside the house and use
LPG gas. So, now we don't really know how it works, and we can't compare
how it works in dry season and wet season. Thus, we can only answer how
it works in the wet season.

**Interviewer**: okay, do you use it in the morning?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we do make tea on it. Also, in the afternoon we
make tea. But, in the summer that's when we are planning to start
cooking nsima -- now, we don't eat nsima at lunch. So, in the summer it
would be interesting to see how much time it would take to cook nsima.
But now, she uses it for cooking soft things, you know what whites eat.
We have also boiled sweet potato there once, but it's always tea all
times. So, that's how our cooking looks like in a day.

**Interviewer**: The vice president in his campaign was promising that
people would be eat three times a day, and you are only eating in the
morning and afternoon is tea, what's happening?

**Interviewee**: The thing is that the one-hour lunch break we get is
not enough to cook nsima and clean the dishes. And, I talk with my boss
that we should start eating nsima because the digester needs nsima waste
to produce more gas, and she said she would think about it.

**Interviewer**: Your boss is not always home, she's mostly at work. So,
you mean 3 or 4 workers can't manage to cook nsima because of time? You
can always share responsibility around that time.... What do you think?

**Interviewee**: We made the decision have tea at lunch because that's
what our boss provides us with -- we are not responsible for buying
that! We get free food! So, if we want to be eating nsima then as
workers we need to contribute money ourselves to buy maize flour and
side dish.

**Interviewer**: I see. So, if you are talking about preparing tea
twice, then that's about 20 -- 30 minutes of cook time. So, I can
estimate that you use it for not more 30 or 45 minutes a day.

**Interviewee**: Yeah. It could be.

**Interviewer**: How do you use the gas? Is it only for cooking?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's only for cooking.

**Interviewer**: My understanding is that you use the effluent for
making compost or fertilizer, and for pest control. How else do you use
the effluent?

**Interviewee**: It's only that. But, just to add we have been using the
effluent for vegetables like spinach, herbals, mustard, and strawberries
and so on. Now we have bought a 2000-liter container to be storing the
effluent for the next growing season, because we want to try it on maize
too.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's nice. What are the operational requirements?

**Interviewee**: The digester needs feeding everyday with 5 kg of
feedstock. So every day I feed it with you chicken manure, rabbit manure
and food waste from the house. And, in most cases I get food leftovers
from my house too. My boss gave me two buckets that I have placed in a
compound of my tenants, so I get a fair amount too. So, we feed it
roughly 5kg a day, but that's the minimum. Sometimes, we feed it more.

**Interviewer**: How much water do you add?

**Interviewee**: We use a ratio of 1:1.

**Interviewer**: How many people use the gas?

**Interviewee**: We are six or seven.

**Interviewer**: How do you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We get the feedstock and soak it in water for a day or
two. After that, we mix the feedstock thoroughly, and then sieve the
feedstock. Then, we feed the digester with feedstock without rubbish,
and the remaining things we soak again for two days and use it as
feedstock again but after sieving again. Then, what remains after that
we use it as ingredients for our compost.

**Interviewer**: Who is responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I'm responsible for feeding it, but during the weekends
my boss feeds it.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the task of feeding it?

**Interviewee**: The task of preparing feedstock is not that involving.
The challenge I see is that it is not easy to source the feedstock. The
other thing is that the feedstock produces strong odor that I find a
health risk. I feel like the bacteria we need for gas production enters
in our body as we are making feedstock; and it has the potential of
causing all sorts of problems. So to avoid this I wear face mask and
gloves every time I'm making and feeding it with feedstock. And, also
when I get home I buy milk to drink.

**Interviewer**: How did you know that milk could help you with that?

**Interviewee**: I learnt this in school. Though I did not go far with
school, this one stuck in my head. So every time I am involved in any
working that involves dust or strong smell, I drinking milk to clear out
the dust or the other particles. Moreover, I confirmed this when I was
working at Robray, a mattress manufacturer. Every time we were closing
business, we they gave us milk to flush out impurities in my body.

**Interviewer**: One big challenge in digester management is that what
you have pointed out, the challenge of sourcing feedstock. And, most
digesters fail because of that. How are you managing to overcome this?

**Interviewee**: We are able to overcome this because it is not a lot of
people who use the gas; secondly, food cooked on the digester does not
require a lot of fire; and, thirdly we have livestock like rabbits and
chicken; also because I am able to source feedstock from my tenants. So,
it's like we have three sources of feedstock, and that's how we have
managed to keep it running update. And, now I understand what Ecogen
meant when they said it's for farmers. It really needs someone who has a
lot of cows and someone who grows a lot of crops to meet its needs. But,
now we are planning to buy more chickens because we understand that it
produces strong feedstock. I also have chickens at my home, but the
chicken coop does not have a floor. So, when we collect the chicken dung
it contains a lot of sand. Thus, my boss has told me that she is going
to buy a sheet, so that I can lay it on the floor, and come with the
manure.

**Interviewer**: Oh, she is so serious about it, uh?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but then it will increase my workload. But, she's
nice and so understanding. So, I'll be okay.

**Interviewer**: How many children and rabbits do you have?

**Interviewee**: We have 8 chickens, and 12 rabbits.

**Interviewer**: How many people do you collect food waste from?

**Interviewee**: That's about 24 people, including my family.

**Interviewer**: Okay, does the digester meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Now it is not because we are in wet season. But, we
expect it to meet our needs in the summer as the installers assured us
that it produces more gas in hot weather.

**Interviewer**: What are the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: We just made a thing like a coil so when we move it
around the digester it gathers rubbish like grass, and eventually it
prevents or unblocks the digester if it's block.

**Interviewer**: What else apart from that?

**Interviewee**: It's only that because the main maintenance issue is
the blocking of the digester at the inlet. So, when it's block, you
can't unblock by hands, because a hand can't go inside the digester and
remove rubbish. Thus, that's why we made that special thing for
unblocking of the digester.

**Interviewer**: What are the challenges?

**Interviewee**: It's only that it blocked once, and that it's not
working well at the moment because we are in cold season. And, that's
why she has built a green house over it to keep it warm. She just came
up with that idea own her own, and it's not like she was told by Ecogen.
And, sadly, it has a drawback too; it drops water onto the bag when it's
hot. So, we are still trying out different things to make it work
better.

**Interviewer**: How did you know that it was blocked?

**Interviewee**: When we were trying to feed it, the feedstock couldn't
go in.

**Interviewer**: When it's blocked how long did it take to fix it?

**Interviewee**: I think it took one and a half week. And, it was after
we came with the idea of making the unblocking thing.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to block?

**Interviewee**: We installed it in January, and it blocked on 4^th^
March or April, I think.

**Interviewer**: Did you call the installers? And, what did they say?

**Interviewee**: My boss called Ecogen and reported that the digester
was not producing fire, and that it was returning feedstock as we were
trying to feeding it. Then, they told her that it blocked at the inlet.
Then, they asked us what we were feeding it, so the problem was that we
didn't follow the feeding instructions, during weekends she was just
getting rabbit manure, add water, and then feed it. So that's what
caused it to block. But, in the end we learned something, and that when
we started soaking it.

**Interviewer**: It's a known fact that white people are organized and
do not follow shorts, what happened that? Was she not told how to feed
it or something?

**Interviewee**: That time she fed it with raw pumpkin leaves from the
hutch which easily block thing, because of the spines/white thread like
things on the leaves, and also because pumpkin leaves don't decompose
easily. She didn't know that it was a bad feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Was Ecogen coming to fix this?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and even when we unblocked it we called and
notified that they shouldn't come because we had already fixed it. That
time they were in Lilongwe, now they have their office at \[Blantyre\].

**Interviewer**: Better, what do you think of this kind of information,
and do you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee**: That's useful information and you have brought an issue
we have raised to Ecogen. We have requested them to provide us with a
manual. So with that will be able to know what's happening, and get
guidance on how to react. For example, we are hoping to get information
on how to make it better when it is summer or wet season.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of your
digester?

**Interviewee**: I can't explain more about it because we have only used
it in wet season. And, you know here in Malawi we have two seasons; the
wet season and dry season; so I can only explain what we have seen in
wet season in regards to its functionality as well as its props and
cons.

**Interviewer**: What are its pros and cons in wet season?

**Interviewee**: The one challenge is that it produces little gas in wet
season..... The other thing is that it blocks. But, that time it was our
fault because we did not feed it properly.

**Interviewer**: Why are you making a distinction between wet season and
dry season in regards to its functionality? Where are you getting this?
Why do you think things will be different in dry season?

**Interviewee**: It's because we were told by the installers that in wet
season it produces relatively small gas unlike in dry season. Now, we
have decided to feeding it with 10kg of feedstock, we have started last
week, so we are waiting to see if things will be different.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. What is
your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Personally, I can say biogas is a very, very good thing
for a number of reasons. Number one is that it can help people save
money by eliminating the cost of fertilizer in farming. I'm a farmer and
I like to grow vegetables, so I think it can help me in this regard very
much. I have two fields and I'm planning on using the effluent one farm
to see how things will work out. I can't use the effluent on both farms
because I don't know how it really works yet, so I can't take the risk.

**Interviewer:** So basically seven people were involved in the
construction of this digester. What special items had to be imported
from another country?

**Interviewee**: They said they get the things from Mexico.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what's the biggest change in your life now that
we are using biogas?

**Interviewee**: Now, I'm very fast in cooking, and I find it very easy
to use.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: It's in the sense that you only need a matchstick to
light it up the fire\... And the other thing is that biogas can be used
as fertilizer, so that another good thing about it.

**Interviewer**: Where do you see biogas in Malawi 5 years from now?

**Interviewee**: The challenge to its progression is the cost. But, it
has a lot of benefits. For example, if you use two bags of charcoal,
which go at K12, 000, you can be saving K24, 000 per month and that is
lot. And also, if you buy fertilizer at K50, 000, it means you would
stop buying fertilizer. It also has the potential to save the
environment because it can make people stop buying charcoal, then
charcoal producer will not have customers, and eventually they would go
out of business.

**Interviewer**: You are saying biogas is expensive, but it is good. So
to strike a balance, what do you think is a fair price for a digester
for an ordinary person?

**Interviewee**: when Ecogen came they told us that this thing can cost
as much as K900, 000. But, they do allow customers to pay a deposit of
K300, 000 and pay the rest later. I feel this is not feasible to an
ordinary Malawi -- it's too much. And, that's a lot for anyone, even
people living in cities. So, it's only fair for organizations to be
giving this to people in the villages, and I think that way we can save
the environment big time.

**Interviewer**: Some organizations did what you are saying. They gave
people the digesters but now not a single one is working....

**Interviewee**: Then, it has to do with management. I think a lot of
people in the villages do not know how to manage things. And, from
experience I think at household level this thing needs to be fed by one
or two person to avoid mismanagement, and should have a proper feeding
plan. I think with that this thing can last to 20 years if it's well
managed as they said.

**Interviewer**: Last question, if you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what could you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good but I found that it's difficult to own
it because of its price. So, if someone can have it, and take good care
of it, then it has a lot of benefits.

**Interviewer**: You have said K900, 000 is a lot of money. What's a
fair price for it?

**Interviewee**: I just think the government or an organization has to
provide the money. Then, if given to smart people, it can help a lot and
save the environment. And, if I can get a chance to own one, I'm pretty
sure I can quit my job and start focusing on farming right away.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) Thanks for the interview. Do you have any last
words?

**Interviewee**: I am just excited for this interview, and that I have
learned a lot from you.

**Interviewer**: Thanks, I have learnt a lot from you too.
