**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 12**

**Date: July 20, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, who designed this digester?

**Interviewee**: \[name redacted\] from Mzuzu Universities designed this
digester.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who founded this?

**Interviewee**: UNDP funded the digester.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the construction company came?

**Interviewee**: It was only \[name redacted\], who came as a
consultant.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who built this?

**Interviewee**: COPRED identified local artisan who built the digester.

**Interviewer**: How did you identify them? What was the procedure, or
you just handpicked?

**Interviewee**: Oh, no, you know people possess skills, so we identify
people with skills in septic tank construction because digesters are
more like septic tanks. Therefore, we identified people with experience
and the pedigree of constructing strong septic tanks that last for
years.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what was your role as COPRED?

**Interviewee**: As COPRED, this was our second digester; the first
digester, we constructed in Soche, but did not work. The first was a
floating drum biogas, designed by a Japanese man failed - it never
worked. So, to advance our agenda on promoting natural resources
management, and to reduce the rampant cutting down of trees here, we
thought about strategies aimed at protecting the environment. At the
same time, we saw people here were cutting down trees carelessly and had
a lot of cows that could help them use for cooking. That is when we
thought of an alternative source of energy for cooking. Therefore, with
our little experience we came with a plan to install a biogas digester
here to save as a demo and as center of learning of biogas so that they
could adopt the technology. So, in a nutshell, our role was resource
mobilization as well as community mobilization for biogas with the aim
of reducing unnecessary cutting down of trees.

**Interviewer**: When was this? When was the digester built?

**Interviewee**: In 2011, that was when the initial design was made, and
it started working in 2012.

**Interviewer**: When was the first digester that failed built? Was it
built around the same time?

**Interviewee**: No, no, that one was the built in 2010 with funding
from [MEET]{.mark}.

**Interviewer**: So this one you worked with \[name redacted\] in 2011
and it worked, nice! How did [UNDP]{.mark} select you as a beneficiary?
Did you follow any procedure?

**Interviewee**: We saw an article calling for proposals, so we showed
interest and capacity that we could run biogas.

**Interviewer**: Was the article in the newspaper?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it was in the newspaper.

**Interviewer**: Daily Times?

**Interviewee**: Yes!

**Interviewer**: I want to know, what was exactly on that article in
that newspaper?

**Interviewee**: You know there are opportunities for innovative ideas
on conservation and protection of the environment. So as
[COPRED]{.mark}, we thought of biogas digesters as an intervention that
could help conserve and protect the environment, especially cutting down
of trees. In addition, we wanted people especially with cows to adopt
the technology to help conserve the environment while using their cow
manure for cooking as well. So, when we built the digester here five
people were using it in a communal kitchen, and in total, people were
getting 8 or 9 cooking hours per day, so you can see that people were
saving K12,000 to K15,000 which they were spending on firewood. Then, we
thought that if five people or more could use the technology, then the
use of charcoal and firewood would reduce dramatically thereby
protecting and conserving trees. So, biogas was a byproduct of
innovative ideas that we came up with.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) it was really an innovative idea because for
an organization like [UNDP]{.mark} to give you funds, it means you
really deserved it.

**Interviewee**: Yes, it was.

**Interviewer**: How long was your project?

**Interviewee**: It was for two years.

**Interviewer**: So in two years you built this one as a demo and five
people benefited from this, nice. Apart from this, did you build another
one? Or did anybody built one?

**Interviewee**: This one was a demo, and as you know digesters come in
different sizes depending on the amount of gas one wants to produce and
use - So this digester was strictly built for demonstration purposes.
However, during that time, there was a certain man who had five cows and
was keen on building a biogas digester, but he passed away in the
process. Sadly, when he died his family did not show interest like the
one he did, so it never materialized. So, to answer your question, this
was the only digester we installed and no one else adopted the
technology.

**Interviewer**: Mmh.

**Interviewee:** so had he lived, I would have been saying that one
person adopted the technology in this community.

**Interviewer**: Apparently, no one adopted your technology, and looking
at you objectives, we can say your project one of your objectives did
not to live up to your expectation. Why did people not adopt it? And,
was there interest in the technology in general?

**Interviewee**: People from this village or other places?

**Interviewer**: Anywhere.

**Interviewee**: We have had a number of people coming from Zomba,
Ntcheu and even Nsanje.

**Interviewer**: How did they know about you? How did they know that
COPRED had a digester?

**Interviewee**: We had a quarterly meeting with UNDP partners at Grace
Bandawe \[conference centre\], and we gave a presentation on biogas.

**Interviewer**: Grace Bandawe in Blantyre?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, so when we made the presentation, people were
very interested to learn more from us.

**Interviewer**: Which organizations were present at the meeting?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) I cannot remember, but a couple of
organizations were there.

**Interviewer**: Before, you saw the article in the newspaper calling
for project proposals. Did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, as I mentioned, before this one was installed
here, we installed another one in TA Nsomba -- Soche, but was not
successful. So, I learnt digester more about biogas from the first
digester that was funded by MEET. But before that digester, I also
learnt from people that, people use animal manure in digesters to
produce energy for cooking and lighting.

**Interviewer**: Who are these people? Who did you learn from?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I cannot certainly remember where I learned this.
But, I think, we learned this from our executive director, who himself
learnt about biogas when he went abroad, I think it is when he went to
Kenya.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so when you saw the article, and with your
knowledge, you were like this is it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they were calling for proposals on sustainable
land management, so when we looked at sustainable land management in
respect to natural resource management we thought of biogas. And of
course, I believe there were many organizations that chose their own way
of implementing sustainable land management - and also, it's not that in
our project we had only biogas, there were also other components or
activities too in regards to sustainable land management.

**Interviewer**: Like what components or activities?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, the project was about sustainable land
management, so we had activities like construction of control ridges,
tillage generation, bushfire controlling as well as tree planting which
were intended for reforestation purposes. We wanted people to plant
fruit trees particularly, because after selling the fruits people are
able to support their families.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected that after the demonstration people would
adopt biogas technology. After that, we hoped that the people would stop
using charcoal and firewood for cooking thereby conserving the
environment particularly by reducing deforestation.

**Interviewer**: What did \[name redacted\] say you should expect from
the digester?

**Interviewee**: He was only here to provide expertise in the
construction of the digester; and he was simply coming back and forth
during construction. The last day he came, he just told us to feed it
and wait for some time. I have forgotten how long he told us to wait for
it to kick-start.

**Interviewer**: Mostly, it takes about one month......

**Interviewee**: Yes, yes, it was around 21 days. We waited for 21 days
and after that the digester started producing gas. We had high hopes in
him and his work because he told us he had constructed some biogas
digesters in Zomba; and when he finished it really worked, and we were
very excited.

**Interviewer**: Nice, did you receive any training from \[name
redacted\]?

**Interviewee**: Yes, and that is why I'm able to explain everything now
(laughs). If this was not done openly; if we were not involved in the
construction work; if we were not taught how to manage it, then I
wouldn't have been able to explain this to you now (laughs).

**Interviewer**: (laughs) yeah, yeah

**Interviewee**: (laughs) He trained us and you can even appreciate
yourself now; and that's why we were able to keep it running. On the
other hand, you cannot learn anything through training, some of the
things you learn through experience. For example, the digester did block
once and we came up with ideas to unblock it. Also, one time, when we
opened the valve, we did not get gas on the burner. But, when we pulled
the pipes, we got gas on the burners, and after that we were able to
establish the cause as well as the solution for that particular failure.
We also learned that during the production of biogas the system also
produces bubbles which sometimes accumulates in the system and
eventually block the gas. Then, we would think of ways of unblocking,
and eventually we came up with an idea of using compressors to unblock
the digester (laughs).

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) yeah, yeah.....

**Interviewee**: so it\'s not as if you need to be taught everything,
some of the things you learn through experience and adversity.

**Interviewer**: Sure. So what kind of training did you receive? And,
how many people were involved?

**Interviewee**: 5 staff and 10 community members; so around 15 to 20
people were trained.

**Interviewer**: What was said during the training? What was the
training like? How many days did it take? And, what type of training was
it?

**Interviewee**: During the training they mentioned several things that
I can recall now. Firstly, he explained to us how the digester was
designed and how it operates. Then, he talked about feedstock
preparation, because if it's not correctly done, it turns the digester
bag into a septic tank. He also talked about the benefits of biogas,
which were pretty much the same reasons we decided to come up with this
innovative idea.

**Interviewer**: Nice, nice. How was this done? Is it like it happened
in class or on-site?

**Interviewee**: It was both; first, we sat in a class, and then we had
a practical session. During the presentation, he also presented on
construction of the digester because not all the people in the class
training were present during the construction phase. So, he explained
about the reactor, gas chamber, outlet and the digestate, brick wall and
all that.

**Interviewer**: Oh, Yeah (laugh), I can see you were able to follow --
and that he was serious about the training.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) He explained everything, can you come let me
show you \[Stands up and goes to the site to explain the system\]
Initially, we thought of making the effluent the floor directly to the
garden, but later we decided that will not look healthy, so we made a
reservoir there. So, this is where we were feeding the digestate, this
was the outlet, and the reactor was here.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice, nice. After the training, how did you feel?
Did you feel that you could operate the digester?

**Interviewee**: I did not only feel like could operate it, but I also
felt like I could even provide technical support to others.

**Interviewer**: Oh (laughs) it was really successful training, I see...

**Interviewee:** Yeah, because he was simply directing. For example, he
could just say; take the pipes and go to a plumber to put threads on the
pipes; go to a welder to fabricate this and that, we what to do this.
So, we were doing everything and it was more hands-on, and even the
artisans were only provided with technical support and can pretty much
do everything by themselves now - and it's good that we still have
people who can build this around the community.

**Interviewer**: You chose to build this one to conserve the environment
as well as to allow people to learn and adopt the technology. You have
also said you wanted to provide energy for cooking. Is there anything
else that compelled you to build the digester here?

**Interviewee**: Firstly, this was a demonstration. We brought it here
because at that time we had cows, so we knew that feeding was not going
to be a problem, and as a learning center we hope people would learn and
start constructing their own biogas digesters. Also, as you know, in
Blantyre city, the cost of living is very high, price of charcoal is
also high, firewood is also expensive, and when we saw that people here
had cows, we wanted them to use their cow manure for cooking thereby
helping them to money. So, we knew if we could make people use biogas,
it was going to make them stop using charcoal and firewood which results
in deforestation -- and when we considered the large number of people
living in this area, we were pretty sure that a lot of trees would be
saved.

**Interviewer**: Before the digester, what were you doing with cow
manure, and how many cows did you have?

**Interviewee**: Before the digester, we were gathering the cow manure
to apply it as manure for our crops and vegetables. Also, COPRED staff
was coming to collect the manure for their gardens.

**Interviewer**: How were your beneficiaries meeting their energy needs
before the digester?

**Interviewee**: When you have nothing you always find a means to
survive. But, it was very hard for them, because they were wasting money
on charcoal and firewood, so this one helped them to cut their
expenditure on charcoal and firewood. Also, as an organization, it
helped us save money that we were spending on firewood to boil water for
the cows to increase intake. Also, it lessened the work for our workers
because it was really hard sometimes for them move around the community
looking for firewood - so the coming of the digester helped us a lot.

**Interviewer**: Let's look at its operation. In 2012, how did it work
after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: It worked well. There were no major issues like I said.
We only started facing challenges when the quantity of the cow manure
reduced, because we could not feed it as we used to. All in all, we had
no issues and we can be able to say it was producing four cubic meters
of gas. At that time, we were in partnership with certain organization
called Sustainable something, I have forgotten its full name, and they
were in partnership with Renewable Malawi, so the supplied us with a
meter. That's why we were able to measure the quantity of gas it was
producing per day. We were even able to measure how much gas was used
for a specific time. Thus, in a day we were able to know how much gas
was produced and used.

**Interviewer**: Sure, how did the records look like? On average, how
much gas was being used?

**Interviewee**: I think it was 4.023 cubic meters per day, on average.

**Interviewer**: That's produced or used?

**Interviewee**: That\'s used. It was very difficult to measure total
gas produced because we did not have any storage. Also, it was difficult
to gauge gas produced because gas production is continuously, and is
used directly from the digester to the stove.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you buy storage? I mean, as an organization
with funding from a big donor, did you see that a gas storage bag was
necessary?

**Interviewee**: The funds which were located for the biogas was not
much, and even the funding itself for the whole project was not that
much. I think the funding K12 million for the whole project, so we could
not have done everything. It was very difficult.

**Interviewer**: K12 million for everything, like trainings and other
activities?

**Interviewee**: Yes, the training, construction, other activities,
buying of seedlings, everything.

**Interviewer**: So, 12 million was for the whole project. Okay, how
much money allocated to biogas?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I don't have the figures...

**Interviewer**: What were they operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: There was need of cow manure, water and labor for
collection and preparation of the feedstock. Labor was necessary because
feedstock preparation is daunting, as manure contain trash that needs to
be removed before feeding to prevent blockages, so it need special
people responsible for that.

**Interviewer**: When you talk of feeding digester, you talk of the
initial feed for startup and regular feeding for gas production. How
much did you use to start up the digester?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, it was a lot, close to 10 to 15 wheelbarrows, and
we added 2, if not 3 drums (200 liters) of water. After that we started
feeding it on regular basis, and sometimes we did notice that when we
fed the digester,, it could not take more feedstock as it was full.

**Interviewer**: How much were you feeding it, and how regular?

**Interviewee**: We were not feeding it daily. We were feeding it every
two days.

**Interviewer**: How many wheelbarrows of feedstock?

**Interviewee**: There was no specific quantity. Some days they could
put one wheelbarrow, but they would not put more than three
wheelbarrows. Mostly, we were feed it twice a week, each time with one
wheelbarrow.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add?

**Interviewee**: If it was two wheelbarrows of cow manure, we added 30
liters of water.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We had dug wells, and sometimes we could get water from
the boreholes.

**Interviewer**: No far -- each source was less than 100 meters.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare food store?

**Interviewee**: We made a wooden stir for mixing the feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Where is it now?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) we used it as firewood in 2014 (laughs). But,
we did not lose everything, some of the things are in that kitchen. I
think the stoves and some pipes are there.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: We had workers.

**Interviewer**: How many?

**Interviewee**: They were two.

**Interviewer**: How did you identify them! Were they part of the
organization or something?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the people who were responsible for managing the
cows were also responsible for feeding the digester. We employed them
basically to look after the cows, and when the digester came they had to
manage the digester as well - and they were even took part in the
training because they were interacting with the digester regularly.
Therefore, leaving them would have made this unsustainable.

**Interviewer**: Initially, how many cows did you have?

**Interviewee**: We had eight cows.

**Interviewer**: What happened to the cows? Did they die or you simply
sold them?

**Interviewee**: As I said, we were making losses because of diseases
and treatment. Also we had issues with the milk; the cows could get
mastitis, as a result, we could have issues with our milk buyers, Daily
Board.

**Interviewer**: What issues? Can you elaborate please.

**Interviewee**: They were saying our milk had low fat. They could talk
about mastitis. Yeah, there were lots of problems.

**Interviewer**: Lots of problems indeed. We are going to end of our
interview. Now, let's talk about maintenance, what were the maintenance
requirements?

**Interviewee**: As far as I'm concerned, maintenance requirements were
concentrated on feedstock management as well as on periodic unblocking
of the system. There was no need to wait for it block, to unblock it.
For instance, after every three months, we were blowing the system with
a compressor to ensure that it didn't get blocked.

**Interviewer**: Where were you getting the compressor? Was it yours?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't ours. We were hiring.

**Interviewer**: At what cost?

**Interviewee**: It was around K3000 that time.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for maintenance? Was it COPRED, the
beneficiaries or the installers?

**Interviewee**: The biogas was not UNDP's. This was COPRED\'s idea
(Laughs\].

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Okaaay, Okaaay....

**Interviewee**: This was COPRED\'s and it's not like UNDP came to us to
give digester. We sold our ideas to UNDP, and they were impressed, and
funded our ideas. So, maintenance and even the identification of the
consultant was not done by UNDP, it was COPRED\'s role.

**Interviewer**: How did you identify the consultant?

**Interviewee**: You know it\'s a global community and we share ideas.
The consultant had worked with one of our board members, and that\'s how
we knew him. So, we reached out to him through our board member to come
and help us with the project.

**Interviewer**: Okay, great. Did the digester meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Yes, there were no gaps...

**Interviewer**: But you had challenges, I'm seeing the problem of
feedstock, Uumh? What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The other challenge came when the people responsible
for feed it lost interest. As a result, the quantity of gas produced
decreased as well.

**Interviewer**: Why did they lose interest?

**Interviewee**: It was all to do with the problems with cow management.
The cows were getting infected with all sorts of disease, and the cows
were not productive. I mean, when we went to Daily Board our milk was
selling at a very low price. So, all this caused our workers to lose
interest in cows, and eventually it also affected the feeding of the
digester.

**Interviewer**: But, this was your farm and they were your workers, you
would have helped them in the management of cows, or you could have find
new workers if they were the problem....

**Interviewee**: It was not only them, even us were tired with the whole
situation, and that's when we decided to sell cow.

**Interviewer**: Another thing, who said you had issues with blockages.
How did you notice the whole thing?

**Interviewee**: There were times we opened the gas valve and switch on
burners, but we could not get little or no gas - and we knew that the
system was blocked.... We did put the gas valve and stove in a closed
kitchen to prevent children from going in. We were afraid that children
could go and turn the gas valve and switch on the stove and ignite
matches and cause an accident.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to stop working?

**Interviewee**: It took three years.

**Interviewer**: So, in that time the problems you faced were to do with
blockages and feedstock. What other challenges did you encounter?

**Interviewee**: Those were the big issues. On top of that, we had an
issue with the stove. Initially, we were using a clay stove and it was
not efficient. It was consuming a lot gas because we could not regulate
the gas to the burners. So, when we saw that it was very inefficient, we
made a modified stainless steel stove. Nonetheless, the problems
continued because we didn't get the modifications right - The standard
wasn't as good as a stove made in a factory. Of course, there was some
kind of improvement. The modified stove was like and electric stove in a
sense that we were able to regulate the amount of gas going to the
burners with a control module. While, with the first stove we would not
control the gas; we were on switching it on and off, and in the process
having no control over output of the gas, hence we were losing a lot of
gas at the end of the day. Also, we had issues with the pipes and the
connections.

**Interviewer**: So when you encountered all these kinds of problems,
did you call the consultant? I mean, what did you do?

**Interviewee**: We were handling all the problems ourselves. The
consultant was only involved in the work before commissioning. We only
called him when we were commissioning to ensure that everything was
okay. Since then, we have never been in contact with him, and he has
never visited this place again.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you call him to help you with the stove?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) the problem was not so big since we were still
able to use the digester, and we felt that we could handle the problem.
Also, when we considered the amount of money we could have spent on him,
we thought it was not viable because the funds allocated were no longer
there.

**Interviewer**: uh, we have this piece of papers, with issues
associated with the digesters, their causes and the solutions, were you
given something like this.

**Interviewee**: No, we were not.

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this information and do you think
it would have helped?

**Interviewee**: Yes, the information would have helped to solve issues.
But, then, we can't attribute the failure of this digester to lack of
this information, because the consultant explained everything to us.

**Interviewer**: ... And you had all that information jolted down on a
paper, I guess.

**Interviewee**: Yes, and that information became our checklist.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay. We are going towards the end of our
interview. How can you describe the current state of you digest?

**Interviewee**: Since it's not working, I can say it's dead.

**Interviewer**: Dead as dead can be? I mean, you have no hope that it
can be revamped?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we don't have that idea now, and as you can see,
we don't cattle anymore and the farm failed altogether.

**Interviewer**: Why did the farm fail?

**Interviewee**: It failed because of the cows.

**Interviewer**: We have talked several issues, but I would like to know
how it reached this state. Also, in your opinion, what really caused it
to reach this state?

**Interviewee**: Because we had issues with cattle, and I believe that's
the only reason we are here today.

**Interviewer**: Now, that is not working, what do you think people who
were using it as a source of energy i.e. cooking?

**Interviewee**: I think they have gone back to using firewood and
charcoal.

**Interviewer**: How much did the digester cost?

**Interviewee**: I can say K 1 - 1.5 million. In total, I can say it
cost not less than 2 million; the cost was high because of the
consultancy. It was also costly to build a cow house. Another thing was
that, at first we made the design of the cow house to feeding the
digester directly,. But, we abandoned this because the cow manure was
containing a lot of trash, so we were worried that it would block the
digester. So this is what made the cost high, but I think the reactor
itself did cost us less than 1.5 million.

**Interviewer**: And all this was paid by UNDP?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with four questions. So as COPRED,
What did you contribute? Is there anything else you contributed in kind?

**Interviewee**: We provided land, unskilled labor, bricks, and quarry
stone.

**Interviewer**: Let's put all this into quantities and costs... How
much labor in total?

**Interviewee**: 3 laborers'.

**Interviewer**: How much did it cost you?

**Interviewee**: Uumh, I can't remember the cost for all that.

**Interviewer**: Masonry?

**Interviewee**: It was two.

**Interviewer**: Did the biogas save you any money?

**Interviewee**: As I said, the coming of the digester made it possible
for us to stop using firewood. So, biogas digester really helps. I can
say, we were saving close to K15000 to K30000. And, it was not only
helping COPRED in this regard, it also helped the people who were using
it.

**Interviewer**: Did you do an analysis to know how much they were
saving?

**Interviewee**: No, but it was around the K20,000 to K30,000 per month.

**Interviewer**: You said five families were using this. How many in
total were you using this?

**Interviewer**: It's a lot -- more than 20 people.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good but it requires adequate livestock.
Also, it needs people who are committed to manage it.

**Interviewer**: So, it's good, but it only requires commitment. What do
you mean? Can you elaborate on that?

**Interviewee**: I means, for it to work you need to dedicate your time
and effort on cattle management because it's not about the biogas
itself; it's also about cow management. Like I said, our digester did
not fail because it developed a technical fault. It failed because there
was no livestock. You cannot manage it, if you are relying on other
people's cow manure, it\'s just not possible. It's not possible to run
it when you are buying cattle manure too.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you think it\'s not possible...

**Interviewee**: It's not possible you need your own livestock run it.

**Interviewer**: Okay, last question, if you were to design your own
waste or energy intervention, what could you have chosen instead of
biogas?

**Interviewee**: In terms of waste management, I would think of an
intervention where waste could collected and transferred to a station in
order to allow the waste to decompose and use it as manure afterwards.

**Interviewer**: How can we develop such a system? And how can it look?

**Interviewee**: The system needs to have waste collection containers
like garbage bags and waste bins in places where people dump waste, and
from there the waste can be taken to a single dumping point, and then
afterwards people can using the waste as manure in their farms.

**Interviewer**: In regards to energy, what can you think of?

**Interviewee**: Windmills, I think that's also good for energy source,
I have seen something like somewhere in Chileka. I don't think it
produce enough energy like electricity though. Still, windmills are
okay, and also are good for water pumping.

**Interviewer**: You had your digester in 2011 and in 2014 it failed
after 3 years. In your opinion, what is your opinion of biogas in
regards to the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: Most people have not seen how it works, and I can say
there is lack of publicity and awareness on biogas. I believe if there
was enough publicity people would move away from electricity. People
only think of electricity and firewood because there is no publicity on
biogas. People are fed up with Escom - look at how Escom is failing to
meet demand. If there were alternatives, who would opt for Escom? No
one. So, if there can be enough publicity and if people see how this
works, I believe people would adopt it, and abandon Escom.

**Interviewer**: As COPRED you had funds and one of your objectives was
to make people adopt it? Why did you didn't you publicize and create
awareness so that people could adopt it?

**Interviewee**: We had the message but we rely on donor fund, so once
the funds are exhausted there is nothing you can do. So need partners to
beef in the support to help spread the message. On top of this you need
to implement this as a model. The organization need to join hands to
make this work by giving the digester to a small number of
beneficiaries, so that other people can copy and learn from them. So,
this thing to work needs money -- not one organization can do this, it
needs organizations to pump in money and work together; without that
this thing cannot work with funds.

**Interviewer**: Last one

**Interviewee**: I thought you said the last one (laughs)

**Interviewer**: This is the last one as last one can be (laughs).There
is something we did not talk about it's about the digestate, how much
was produced?

**Interviewee**: The slurry which was coming from there we were dying
because we couldn't use it for directly as it would kill crops because
of its strength. So, we were gathering the manure for growing season,
which is one year. Thus, at the end of one year we were gathering two
Lorries of the truck you saw at our offices.

**Interviewer**: How big is that?

**Interviewee**: It\`s 15 tons.

**Interviewer**: That's a lot. Were you using the bio-slurry?

**Interviewee**: some people were coming to buy to use it in their
farms, and we were also taking it for our personal use.

**Interviewer**: This is the very last one (laughs). How much were you
charging on the bio slurry?

**Interviewee**: I think one ton was K8000.

**Interviewer**: Oh, thanks for the interview (laughs)

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming, we appreciate your coming.
