**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 13**

**Date: July 20, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: I just saw people coming with the digester. Then, they
placed the digester in the hole, and then telling us that the bag
produces gas for cooking.

**Interviewer**: So you do not know them by name... I think this type of
digester is from Ecogen. Uh, if you can recall, how many people were
there?

**Interviewee**: I cannot exactly say how many people were there. I just
saw people coming with the bag. I think when they came they simply put
the bag in the hole because at that point the hole was already dug, so.
Nevertheless, I cannot remember exactly how many people were there, I
think it was two people.

**Interviewer**: Who dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: Hired workers?

**Interviewer**: How many?

**Interviewee**: It was two people

**Interviewer**: Who funded this?

**Interviewee**: The money came from the school.

**Interviewer**: Who built it? I mean, was it only the two individuals
from the construction company and the hired workers? Who else was
involved?

**Interviewee:** It was only them; the hired workers dug pit, and the
other people assembled the whole thing.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No!

**Interviewer**: Um-hmm

**Interviewee**: I only knew charcoal - I did not know anything about
biogas (laughs). I only knew traditional means of cooking -- charcoal
and firewood.

**Interviewer**: So you have not heard about biogas?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I did not know anything about biogas.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what was your role?

**Interviewee**: When it came, our role was to feed it every day, from
Monday to Friday, to keep it running all the time.

**Interviewer**: After the digester was installed, what were your
expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected to save money that we were spending on
charcoal; I mean, once we learned that it produces gas for cooking, we
anticipated to minimize usage of charcoal.

**Interviewer**: What else did you expect?

**Interviewee**: We expected to save money that was being spent on
charcoal, so we expected to use the money for other things.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what things did you had in mind?

**Interviewee**: We hoped to use the money to buy relish for the
students.

**Interviewer**: When the installers had finished installing the biogas
digester, what did they say you should expect from it?

**Interviewee**: We expected to benefit... They simply gave us
information regarding its operation. They said if we fail to feed it, we
would not be getting enough gas and flames for cooking; and they said we
should be feeding it. Secondly, they said the system produces water that
clogs the pipes and stops flows of gas. Therefore, they said when this
happens, we should be opening and removing water from the water trap,
and then close it.

**Interviewer**: You mean water flows in the pipes.

**Interviewee**: Gas flows in the system

**Interviewer**: So, where does the water come from?

**Interviewee**: When the digester is not working or when there is no or
little gas in the system, water starts accumulating in the pipes. As a
result, it stops the flow of gas, and that\'s why we need to feed it all
the time to avoid this.

**Interviewer**: What is this water?

**Interviewee**: When there is no gas production like now, small traces
of water accumulates in the system and then blocks the system.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay.

**Interviewee**: So that\'s the instructions we were given.

**Interviewer**: Did you receive any training?

**Interviewee**: We received training on how to operate it.

**Interviewer**: Um-hmm

**Interviewee**: \[Talking to students\]

**Interviewer**: Okay, what type of training was did you

**Interviewee**: We did not go in a class. They simply told us what we
should be doing; and that if there is a fault, we should do this and
that.

**Interviewer**: Where was this training?

**Interviewee**: At the site of the digester.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so can you remember what they told you? I mean,
what is this \`\`do this and that, if there is a problem\`\` you are
talking about? Can you elaborate on that, please?

**Interviewee**: OK, if it's a broken like it is right now, we just need
to inform them. The digester is broken right now because of pressure; we
failed to harvest the gas for a couple of days, so the gas accumulated
in the bag that the pressure was too much and ended up damaging the pipe
close to the gas valve, which is close to the bag. However, for problems
related to gas production, we simply take out the water from the water
trap. In addition, when there is little or no gas we simply need to feed
it, so that it can produce gas.

**Interviewer**: Were you taught how to disassemble it?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we were told

**Interviewer**: Oh, what were you told?

**Interviewee**: We have tools and in some places, we use our hands like
to remove water from the water traps and replace.

**Interviewer**: How many people attended this training?

**Interviewee**: It was my friend and I.

**Interviewer**: You and your friend?

**Interviewee**: Yeah - the chef and I. She is not here now; she has
knocked off.

**Interviewer**: Which problems do you feel you can manage to fix?

**Interviewee**: When there is water in the system, I can manage to
remove it, even when my colleague is not around.

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: When there is water in the pipes, the water stops at
the water trap or at a place close to stove, the place I showed you. So,
I'm able to remove the water in the system in these places even when my
colleague is not available. I simply untie that place and that place
too, and then I lift or hit the pipes, so that water backflows in the
pipes into the bag or at the water trap.

**Interviewer**: So, you are confident that you can remove water from
the system when it blocks?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it\`s just those two places. But, in most cases,
water is trapped on that place because it's difficult to get to that
place as it is raised. Therefore, when it blocks, we open the water trap
first and then we remove all the water from there \[where you colleagues
is taking a picture\]

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's impressive. Can you manage to fix a leakage
or a punch on the bag?

**Interviewee**: If someone can teach us, we can do it. I do harvest gas
from the system when there is too much bag in the system for later use;
I manage to do that as well.

**Interviewer**: So you were taught how to do that?

**Interviewee**: They told taught us how harvest and store gas; so we
can do it; we harvest gas at the stove in the kitchen.

**Interviewer**: How do you do that?

**Interviewee**: The storage bag has pipe or opening. So, when we want
to harvest gas, we open the gas and connect a pump that uses solar power
to help the gas move when there\'s little pleasure. In other cases, we
just put a bag of sand to increase pressure instead of the pump.

**Interviewer**: Let me be clear on how you harvest gas at the stove.
How do you do that?

**Interviewee**: First, we open the gas valve, and then we connect a
pump to the storage bag and the digester bag. The pump helps to draw gas
from the digester to the storage bag. So, when there is little pressure
we connect the pump to electricity or solar, and then it moves the gas
from the digester bag to the storage gas. Some time, instead of the
pump, we simply put a bag of sand on the digester bag to help move the
gas from the digester to the storage bag.

**Interviewer**: How does it look like? I mean can I see it?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I can say the pumping device looks like an
adapter, and we connect it to solar or electricity to work. You can't
see it now because it\`s in the stores room and its locked now.

**Interviewer**: I would like to see this device. How many storage bags
do you have?

**Interviewee**: We have two bags.

**Interviewer**: How big?

**Interviewee**: Like this \[show height\]

**Interviewer**: 2 meters

**Interviewee**: It is big and when it is fed, it gets big as that drum
\[Points to a 200-liter drum). And, during holidays, I like to take the
bags home and use the gas for cooking.

**Interviewer**: Do you have biogas at your place?

**Interviewee:** No, I just take a stove from this place and use the gas
from storage bags. So, I do not need a cylinder or a gas canister, the
storage bag contains the gas, which are using on the stove for cooking.

**Interviewer**: So after all the training or the instructions, how
prepared to run or operate the reactor did you feel you were?

**Interviewee**: \[speaks to students\] I felt very good, very positive
indeed.

**Interviewer**: Did you feel you could fix all the problems?

**Interviewee**: Yes, but we cannot fix the problem we have now; we need
the installers to come and fix the problem. After that, we will feed and
it will start working again.

**Interviewer**: But, after the training, you felt you would operate and
maintain it...

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Did you imagine a problem that you could not solve?

**Interviewee**: No... But, yes, because the installer told us that if
there is any issue beyond our capacity we call them to come and fix.

**Interviewer**: What problems did you encounter that you required
consultation?

**Interviewee**: During the first days, when we were not conversant with
the digesters, it was starting and stopping. It was confusing; we would
try hard to troubleshoot as much as we could. Then, we realized that it
required constant feeding.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think chose to build it here?

**Interviewee**: \[student comes\] Can I attend to that one please?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, yeah, I will pause the recording. \[After some
time\] where were we?

**Interviewee**: We were on why did we choose to build it here?

**Interviewer**: Oh yeah.

**Interviewee**: It came here to help us with cooking as well as to save
money, which we were spent on cooking. It also came here to conserve the
environment.

**Interviewer**: Before the digester, what were you using for energy
i.e. cooking?

**Interviewee**: We were simply using charcoal.

**Interviewer**: No firewood?

**Interviewee**: No firewood, just charcoal.

**Interviewer**: In a month, how much charcoal were you using?

**Interviewee**: In a month, we were using probably three bags of
charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Are the bags not too little for the whole school? Is it
not a boarding school?

**Interviewee**: It's not a boarding school and some students bring food
from their respective homes. Some just buy junky foods.

**Interviewer**: What do you cook?

**Interviewee**: Chips, eggs.

**Interviewer**: and you were only using charcoal? I mean, most people I
have seen selling chips use firewood; they say customer like chips
cooked on firewood, and it's true the chips tastes better.

**Interviewee**: Sometimes, we could use it, but it was rarely because
it involves heavy cutting of trees as a result it causes deforestation;
besides, it's tough to gather firewood.

**Interviewer**: Charcoal doesn't cause deforestation?

**Interviewee**: It does.

**Interviewer**: So, how is it different?

**Interviewee**: I just don't like seeing people cutting down trees to
use as firewood, and it is also tiresome.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Okay, let's move on. What was your feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Potato peels, slices of cabbage. And, they advised us
not to feed hard stuff like maize cobs and stones; we were feeding it
with things that easily break and decompose.

**Interviewer**: So, it was a strictly food waste?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, food waste strictly, and no papers.

**Interviewer**: Sure. Before the digester, what were you doing with the
food waste?

**Interviewee**: We were simply throwing away the food waste in a bin.

**Interviewer**: So after the digester, that's when you started using
food waste productively?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we were not able to cook and serve food using
food leftovers.

**Interviewer**: When was built it?

**Interviewee**: 2021, or late 2020.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: After we installed it, we tried it with one banner, and
it worked. But, before that, we waited for some weeks to start up. Then
after that, we started using it for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many weeks did you wait?

**Interviewee**: I think it was two or three weeks

**Interviewer**: So after those weeks, how did it work?

**Interviewee**: It worked very well.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: The gas was strong and it was far more powerful than
charcoal; the flames were intense and blue. It was easy to cook too as
we were using two burners; so we were cooking fast, and then we would
turn it off.

**Interviewer**: How much gas did it produce? I mean, how much cooking
time did you get?

**Interviewee**: Maybe, we were getting one hour and 30 minutes of
cooking time. And, if we were cooking beef, we could use it for two
hours.

**Interviewer**: How many times were you using it in a day? Were you
able to prepare breakfast, lunch, and supper?

**Interviewee**: We prepare breakfast and lunch, which we prepare around
11 AM. So, after that, we were done for the day; we finished cooking
after preparing lunch.

**Interviewer**: What food items were you cooking on it?

**Interviewee**: Rice, chicken, vegetables, and beef. The beef was the
one that taking longer than the rest.

**Interviewer**: So after cooking lunch at around 11:00 AM, were you not
using it afterwards?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: So, you were getting about two hours of cooking time a
day?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: How many students are here?

**Interviewee**: Many - over 500 students.

**Interviewer**: You mentioned that not all the students eat here; some
bring their own food; some buy junk foods. Approximately how many
customers do you have?

**Interviewee**: I sell food to 30 or 50 students per day

**Interviewer**: What did you start it the digester with? And, where did
you get the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I think we used a half a ton car, if not two tons to
start it up; there was plenty of feedstock!

**Interviewer**: Okay, what else?

**Interviewee**: To start up, we also used added water, and we continued
to add water daily.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We have a dug well. We were also getting water from the
tap.

**Interviewer**: That is water from the water board?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. We use water from the well for other things and
not for drinking. Apart from that, we also have a borehole.

**Interviewer**: What about that tank?

**Interviewee**: That's a storage tanks?

**Interviewer**: Where is the source? Do you pump water from the ground
and store it there, or you simply store water for water board in the
tanks?

**Interviewee**: It was Blantyre board water.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We were feeding it with 20 kg of food waste, especially
potato peels. To this, we were adding four buckets (20 liters) of water.
Then, we were putting the mixture in a drum to decompose, and then pour
the feedstock into digester bag. We did wear gloves when preparing the
feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Why wearing gloves?

**Interviewee**: To protect ourselves from bacteria. And, we were
wearing a mask to protect ourselves from bad smell.

**Interviewer**: Who has responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: A certain man was helping us in feeding.

**Interviewer**: So I can say three people were responsible for feeding
it. Who is this other person?

**Interviewee**: His name is Stevie

**Interviewer**: I mean, what is his role?

**Interviewee**: He works as a ground labor; he was only feeding it when
my colleagues and I were busy.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: To maintain it, we only needed to harvest gas from the
digester bag when it was filled to allow it to produce new gas. I think
that was the only thing that was needed to keep it working. I'm saying
this because I observed that the pipe was damaged because the bag was
filled with gas and there was no exit for the gas.

**Interviewer**: But you have harvesting bags or storage bags. Why
didn\'t you harvest and store the gas?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we have storage bags. But this happened during a
school holiday so no one was around to harvest the gas. So the gas needs
to be harvested whenever it is full. I mean, when you feed it gas keeps
on coming and it needs to be removed to avoid such occurrences.

**Interviewer** Okay, does it produce digestate?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it released digestate at the outlet there

**Interviewer**: Where does the digestate go?

**Interviewee**: We use it there in vegetables and other places

**Interviewer**: How does it go there? Do you carry it there or does it
go there directly?

**Interviewee**: We carry the digestate in a drum to the vegetable
garden.

**Interviewer**: You have said you carry it to other places as well.
Where else do you carry it?

**Interviewee**: We carry it to our homes and use it in our gardens. We
also use it as fertilizer for flowers.

**Interviewer**: Did you sell the gas?

**Interviewee**: Not when I was around. But, there was a certain time
some people were looking for gas. But, I don't know if they came to get
the gas.

**Interviewer**: Where were you around that time?

**Interviewee**: I was on holiday.

**Interviewer**: The time it was working, did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we were not struggling; we would simply cut
vegetables, put a pot on the stove - it was very easy -- it was easy to
cook.

**Interviewer**: Were there times you wanted to cook, but you could not
do so because there was little or no gas at all?

**Interviewee**: It was happening when there was little or no gas in the
bag. But, we were quick to note problem; we noted that when it was out
of feedstock, we could not get enough gas.

**Interviewer**: Okay, why were you not feeding it us required? Was it
laziness or you were just thinking everything is OK

**Interviewee**: Just taking things for granted. When we saw it working,
we thought that it was going to keep on working at the same pace. Maybe,
sometimes, it takes longer for the feedstock to decompose in the drum.
So, we couldn't feed it when the feedstock hadn't start decomposed.

**Interviewer**: Okay

**Interviewee**: But, it was nothing to do with the feedstock because it
was always available.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that reminds me, how often were you feeding it?

**Interviewee**: Every day we were supposes to feeding it. And, we were
feeding it every day.

**Interviewer**: Everything in life has challenges. What were the
challenges?

**Interviewee**: Uumh, we had fears that this thing is expensive, so we
tried hard to take good care of it and make it last long. At the same
time, we were doing everything so that we should not return to use
firewood.

**Interviewer**: You haven't answered my question. Like I said
everything else challenges, what challenges did you encounter or are you
encountering with this thing? First, I would say...

**Interviewee**: The main issue was blocking of the system due to water
log. A limitation in its functionality is that, water accumulates in the
pipes and blocks the flow of gas, as a result, little or no gas comes at
the stove.

**Interviewer**: You can go attend to the students... Yeah, you were
talking about challenges. You mentioned the water issues in the pipes.
How did this problem manifest?

**Interviewee**: Whenever, there is no fire, we go check - so we knew.

**Interviewer**: Where do you check?

**Interviewee**: First, we look at the white thing (water trap). Then,
water clogs along the pipes and there is another place at/or close to
the stove.

**Interviewer**: How many water-clogging problems did you faced? And how
many managed to fix?

**Interviewee**: Many times - and we were told to open the water trap
regularly to get rid of water in the system.

**Interviewer**: Like how many times?

**Interviewee**: Maybe, five times. But, then we started removing water
from the water trap even before it is blocked.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how long did it take before it stopped working?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, it has worked before a long time, but I cannot say
how long. I think it's been year and some months now.

**Interviewer**: OK after a year or so that's when it stopped?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Did it stop at once or gradually?

**Interviewee**: It did not stop at once. It was gradually declining.
Yeah, and it hasn't really stopped working like it can never be fixed.
The problem is the gas pipe burst. It\'s only that. You would have seen
the bag fully inflated, if the pipe didn't burst.

**Interviewer**: After the pipe burst, what did you do? What have you
done?

**Interviewee**: We told our Madam who called them. She told us to leave
it as it is because someone will come to fix it.

**Interviewer**: When was that?

**Interviewee**: Last week, the person coming to fix it was supposed to
come last week.

**Interviewer**: When did it stop working?

**Interviewee**: It\`s been a month or two.

**Interviewer**: You said you were taught ....

**Interviewee**: Wait! Let me attend to the student.

**Interviewer**: (after some time) oh, while you were away, my friend
was asking about the ponds behind that block. I said they are
fishponds...

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Do you have fish there?

**Interviewee**: There is chambo in there -- yeah!

**Interviewer**: (Laughs heavily) oh?

**Interviewee**: We have chambo in there. We feed it ourselves and we
have its feed. We fish chambo in there.

**Interviewer**: Okay, we are on this piece of information. Have you
seen something like this?

**Interviewee**: No!

**Interviewer**: It has information regard issues associated with
digester, and even the issue of water blocking the system you talked
about is here. What do you think of this kind of information, and do you
think it would have helped?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they talked about water clogging the system. This
information could have helped a lot.

**Interviewer**: Elaborate.

**Interviewee**: We could have learned a lot about problem solving and
it could have helped to us solve certain problems.

**Interviewer**: What they told you, the training you received; wasn\`t
enough?

**Interviewee**: It was sufficient. But, I feel like I'm the problem
that it\`s not working. I'm the one to blame for it stopping to work
because I was the one tasked to harvest gas. Unfortunately, when I left
for a four-day holiday, I didn't feed it. So gas production continued
and had no outlet; and I even conceded that I didn't harvest the gas,
when the installers asked me through my boss.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of your
digest?

**Interviewee**: It's currently not working but I think it is fixable.
\[Stops to pick a call\]

**Interviewer**: How did it reach this state?

**Interviewee**: I failed to harvest gas from the digester bag that\`s
the reason it's not working today.

**Interviewer**: So you are certain that if you had harvested the gas,
it could have been working today?

**Interviewee**: I\`m more than certain.

**Interviewer**: Is there any other reason or cause it is in this
current state?

**Interviewee**: It's only for that one reason -- and now we can\'t feed
it because gas will be leaking through the hole. We will start feeding
it again once it's fixed.

**Interviewer**: When are they coming to fix it?

**Interviewee**: Any day - my boss asked me today if the technicians had
come to fix it.

**Interviewer**: Now that it is not working, what are you using for
energy i.e. cooking?

**Interviewee**: We are now back to "Deforestation" -- We are now using
charcoal.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Okaaay

**Interviewee**: Charcoal burners are now our lifesavers -- Biogas
stoves are history now.

**Interviewer**: What challenges are you facing now since it\`s not
working?

**Interviewee**: Uh, We are spending a lot of money (laughs)

**Interviewer**: Like how much?

**Interviewee**: In a week, we are now spending K3000 to K3500.

**Interviewer**: What are you doing with the feedstock now?

**Interviewee**: We are just keeping the feedstock; potato peels are not
difficult to keep. As for other food waste, we dispose of in a refuse
pit.

**Interviewer**: Where are the potatoes peels today? I can\`t see them.

**Interviewee**: We didn't cook chips today.

**Interviewer**: Where are yesterdays or the other days potato peels?

**Interviewee**: We just throw them in the bins, and we will use the
later.

**Interviewer**: How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I don't know. But, it was a lot of cash.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: The thing just looks expensive. And, I have not seen
people using it, so it much be really expensive.

**Interviewer**: But, the money came from school fund?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. We need
to go, so you can attend to other duties as well. Did you or your
organization contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: Aah, it's only the land -- and the big blue drums.

**Interviewer**: Do you know how that much cost?

**Interviewee**: I don't know: maybe K2000 or 3000 each, and we have 3
of them.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee**: Only 2 people

**Interviewer**: Did you do any brickwork?

**Interviewee**: I don't know. Maybe, they did. I can't no, because the
time they were installing it I was busy with other things. But, I'm sure
there s something underneath. They can\'t just say bury the bag without
any protection.

**Interviewer**: Which special items had to be imported from other
countries?

**Interviewee**: The bag - that bag is not from Malawi. I have grown up
here in Malawi and I have never heard or seen something like a biogas
digester. I also receive visitors who come to see what it is; maybe it's
somewhere else. But, as far as I'm concerned, this was my first time to
see.

**Interviewer**: Tell about me that, who comes?

**Interviewee**: It\`s mostly people who have heard about cooking using
gas. Most people ask me about biogas especially when I carry the storage
bag filled with gas. Children get very surprised and alarmed when they
see me carrying the storage bag on my back. They even run in fear. But,
some grown up people, know that it gas, and they ask where I getting the
gas. Then, I tell them we have a digester bag.

**Interviewer**: What do people think or say about biogas?

**Interviewee**: People are interested to learn more on how it works.
They even come after, and I take them to the kitchen to show them how it
works.

**Interviewer**: Do they seem impressed?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) I think so. But, money is a challenge. Times
are hard!

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) what is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I personally think biogas is very important to us. It
helps us a lot in terms of cooking and saving money. Also, it's helping
us to conserve the environment.

**Interviewer**: Uh-hmm

**Interviewee**: I would like to see it working again to make our
cooking easy. We do not struggle to cook as we do at our homes when we
have it running. It's fast just like cooking on an electric cooker --
You cannot compare into with charcoal or firewood in terms of quickness.
When you put a pot of water on the stove, it doesn\'t take long to boil.
It takes only 5 minutes.

**Interviewer**: How long does it take the water to boil on charcoal or
firewood? And how big are the pots?

Interviewee: It's a big pot that one can use the water adequately for
bathing. It takes normally not less than 20 minutes to get the same
water boiled on charcoal. Biogas is not like charcoal or firewood, which
forces you to constantly blown air to increase the intensity of the
fire. With the biogas you just turn the switch control nod left and
right, just like you increase volume on a radio. So when we want to cook
rice, we just minimize the volume on the stove. To get well-cooked rice
you just minimize the gas on stove as I have said.

**Interviewer**: You know this thing is good. How are you allowing it
stay unfixed for a month or so? We can't say its money. One student's
tuition can get this thing working.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) we are simply waiting for the installers to
come and restore it.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think it's taking long?

**Interviewee**: I think it's taking long because of the technician. He
is the one taking long. My boss called me to ask if he has come today.

**Interviewer**: Last question, if you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I can't choose anything else besides biogas.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: I can't say solar panels because it has its own
limitations.

**Interviewer**: What limitations?

**Interviewee**: Sometimes, the panels get broken, after that is the end
of it. As for this, it gets its power from cow dung.

**Interviewer**: So you would have no chosen anything else but biogas,
the bag can also get damaged.

**Interviewee**: Mmmh, honestly, I don't have options. This is a
difficult question for me.

**Interviewer**: Why is it Difficult?

**Interviewee**: I can't say charcoal burners. That's eeish. So, I can
only opt to use food waste for compost making; it's simple you just put
food was in a bag and allow it to decompose. Later, use it as manure.

**Interviewer**: Why are you not doing that?

**Interviewee**: Because we are just waiting for the technician --
that's all. He will come.

**Interviewer**: Why have made you think it the technician who is
delaying this instead of anything else?

**Interviewee**: My boss asked me if the technician had come, and told
her not yet. The owner is ready. The technician is the one who has
problems.

**Interviewer**: Okay, that's my last question. In closing, do you have
anything else to say?

**Interviewee**: You asked me about which options I could have chosen
instead of this. What options are available? I didn't have options.

**Interviewer**: What you said was quite like. You can use the waste to
make compost and fertilizer. That\'s a very good option. In terms of
energy, you mentioned solar, that's another option. We have electricity
cooking option, LP gas

**Interviewee**: Oh, I forgot LPG gas. We have that. At some point, we
used that. It has gas canister that needs refill of gas once it stops
working.

**Interviewer**: Why did you stop?

**Interviewee**: We just abandoned it.

**Interviewer:** \[question inaudible\]

**Interviewee**: I don't know. But, we have many gas canisters.

**Interviewer**: How many?

**Interviewee**: Many. Some even took them home.

**Interviewer**: How different is LPG gas from biogas?

**Interviewee**: With LPG gas, you need to go search for the gas when
it\'s finished. While biogas needs feeding with waste, which is usually
readily available. So LPG is a bit complicated.

**Interviewer**: Okay thanks. That end of our interviews.

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming. I enjoyed the conversation and I
have learned one or two things. Thanks, and make sure you call my boss
to inform her you came.

**Interviewer**: I will, and I called her when I was coming, before I
called you.

**Interviewee**: That's great. Thanks.
