**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 15**

**Date: July 21, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, where did this digester come from?

**Interviewee**: We got this from a company called Ecogen. They
initially distributed flyers of their products and then they came to
market their products here. Therefore, after they marketed their product
we were interested and thought about trying a digester.... So, yeah, we
got it from Ecogen.

**Interviewer**: So, they marketed it and that is when you got
interested?

**Interviewee**: Right!

**Interviewer**: How did they market the digesters? Was it in the
newspaper or something?

**Interviewee**: No, it was not in the newspaper. They came at our cow
owners group, and discussed about biogas. They mentioned that it is a
technology that produces gas for cooking as well as fertilizer, and
that's the reason that got us interested \[visitor interrupts\]

**Interviewer**: You can go attend to the visitor... So, it came from
Ecogen. Do you know who designed it?

**Interviewee**: It is Ecogen. They brought everything. They only asked
to choose the size of the digester that we wanted... They have all sorts
of sizes -- and that time they had digesters smaller than this one. So,
after we chose the digester they advised us to dig two holes, and then
they promised us to come later to install it.

**Interviewer**: How many people were involved in digging? And, how long
did it take?

**Interviewee**: It took a considerable amount of time to dig the holes
because it was summer and the ground was dry that time. Four people dug
the holes and it took them about one week, because as I said the ground
was dry and rocky too. In addition, the installer came with people, who
helped us to dig the holes; and that is the reason we finished the work
faster than expected.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation came?

**Interviewee**: They came four people, but only three people were
involved in the work: two boys and one girl.

**Interviewer**: You are saying the installers had different sizes of
digesters; and they even had smaller ones, so why did you choose this
size?

**Interviewee**: We considered the quantity of cow manure we generate,
because owning a digester depends on how much cow manure you can
generate, so since we have a lot of cows we settled for a bigger
digester. Moreover, we wanted to get more fertilizer and gas without
wasting any cow manure, so we settled for a bigger digester.

**Interviewer**: How many cows do you have?

**Interviewee**: We have six cows.

**Interviewer**: I understand you learn a lot about biogas when Ecogen
came to your milk group...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, SHMPA \[Shire Highlands Milk Producers
Association\]

**Interviewer**: Before that, did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee**: I was only hearing about biogas on radio, and I saw it
on their \[Ecogen\] flyer. But, then we were not paying much attention
to all that. We became interested and attentive to the radio messages
after Ecogen came. So, we learned that manure could produce gas for
cooking and fertilizer from Ecogen at SHMPA.

**Interviewer**: So, how many people were you there?

**Interviewee**: There were many women, I understand. Maybe, 500 people
in total, but I was not there.

**Interviewer**: How many people got the digesters out of the 500
people?

**Interviewee**: I only know, four people, if not three, from this side
\[Mpemba\]. And, it is not as if the others did not like biogas, no.
But, there were three or four reasons that made them not to buy the
digesters. First, some people did not believe that cow dung could
produce gas and fertilizer via the digester. Therefore, they were
skeptical as such, they preferred to observe and learn from their
colleagues. Also, when Ecogen mentioned the price of the digesters
people found them expensive, and people even thought they could not
afford the cheaper small bag digesters. But, I believe the people found
the price high because they did not consider their monthly expenditure
on cooking -- they could not see that -- they only saw the figure of
K600000, and thought it was high. So, the fact that people were not sure
about the gas and fertilizer and its price that is why most people did
not buy the digesters. But, now many people want this thing in their
homes, because they have seen how useful this thing is. And, many people
we have seen and heard, that would like to own biogas ask us if it's
possible to pay in installments--so that's the number one questionwe
receive from people who come from various place to appreciate it. People
who come here to appreciate it even think that with the amount of cow
manure they generate, they could be making a lot of money from the
digester by selling the manure.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: Our expectation was that our lives would change. I
mean, we anticipated that we would stop spending money on some of the
things which were buying, for example, firewood and charcoal, and that
is K30000 per month. For instance, we use at least three bags of
charcoal a month, so you can see that is a lot of money. We expected to
save the money, which were spending on fertilizer, and when we
considered how high the price of fertilizer has escalated, we thought
that we would be saving a lot of money. Also, we expected to stop using
pesticides by using the effluent. Again, we expected it to improve milk
production -- for example, if we were producing 4 liters of milk we
expected to produce 8 or 10 liters. Thus, we expected to attain this by
mixing effluent with cow feedstock e.g. maize bran or grass and then
feed it to the cows, as this greatly improves milk quality and
quantity... In regards to using is it as a pesticide, we dilute the
effluent with water, and then we apply the diluted effluent on maize to
get rid of weevils and other pests.

**Interviewer**: How do you apply it?

**Interviewee**: We normally take effluent and dilute it with water in a
bottle or bucket. Then, we drop the liquid at the top of the maze crop,
and all the pest goes away. Therefore, effluent is a pesticide as well
as an additive for cow feed.

**Interviewer**: How do you make the pesticide?

**Interviewee**: We dilute the effluent every time we want to use it,
because it is very strong when undiluted. Therefore, we dilute the
effluent in a ratio of 1:2. Thus, if we have 20 liters of effluent we
dilute it with 40 liters of water.

**Interviewer**: What do you feed your cow?

**Interviewee**: We feed it with maize bran and grass.

**Interviewer**: How do you specifically make the feed with effluent to
improve milk quality and quantity?

**Interviewee**: We add the effluent to the feed. We do not soak or
immerse the feed in the effluent. We simply splash or spray the effluent
on the feed, so that it does not get watery. We simply splash and the
mix feed, and feed it to the cows.

**Interviewer**: I talked to someone who is using effluent as a
bio-pesticide. He told me that he adds ginger and paper to make a strong
pesticide. Do you do that?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Okay! Why not? Have you not heard about it?

**Interviewee**: About putting ginger into the effluent?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, about diluting the effluent with water in a ratio
of 1:2 as you mentioned, then add ginger or pepper, and then putit in a
sprayer, andafterwards sprayit on the maize, vegetables, whatever.

**Interviewee**: No, we have never done that. But, when we dilute the
effluent with water, and then apply it as a pesticide it works perfectly
-- and it is a strong pesticide.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what kind of training did you receive from the
installers?

**Interviewee**: When they came to install it, they trained us. On that
day, they showed us how to make feedstock and make the feedstock
ourselves. It was basic; they simply asked us to put manure in a bucket,
and then add water according to a certain ratio. Afterwards, they told
us to wait for five days to allow the feedstock to decompose and produce
gas. And, on the fifth day, they came and found the bag full. They told
us how to start the fire and how to regulate it. Then, they told us to
do this and that when it stops to fix it and that whenever there is a
big problem we should be calling them.

**Interviewer**: Which issues were you taught how to fix?

**Interviewee**: There are certain times when the digester stays long
unused. Since the production of gas continues, it accumulates in the
system, and then it turns to water. So, when one wants to use it again,
the gas does not come at all or it comes in small quantity, because
water blocks the flow of gas. Therefore, they told us that if this
happens we should be opening a certain place to remove water in the
system. Also, they told us that when it is blocked, water in the
cylinder or tube rises up to full, so when we see that, we should know
it is blocked. They also told us to unblock it we only need to lift the
pipe to make water to flow back into reactor -- and, when we do that, it
comes back to life again. On top of this, they informed us that this
same thing happens at or close to the stove. They said when we see water
or moist at the banner, we should take it out, throw the water away, and
then replace the burner on the stove. Lastly, they said in the pipes
there is something like a cleaning mesh wire pot scourer \[filter\]
which helps to contain foul smell like that of rotten eggs. So, they
advised us that when we smell odor like rotten egg odor at the stove, we
should know that the filter is broken, and we should quickly replace it.

**Interviewer**: Where did they tell you to get this wire?

**Interviewee**: They said we could buy it on our own.

**Interviewer**: Is it readily available?

**Interviewee**: Yeah - in the markets.

**Interviewee**: If you go to a market, what would you say you want to
buy?

**Interviewee**: I will say I want a mesh wire scourer \[used for
cleaning pots\].

**Interviewer**: Oh, so the filter is pretty much a cleaning mesh wire
scourer.

**Interviewee**. Yeah, it is similar. It is basically the same.

**Interviewer**: What else were you trained? How was the training? Was
it just theory or practical?

**Interviewee**: It was not as if they were fixing it, and they have
never come to fix it. They were just explaining like this is what
happens, and this is what you do. So, they shared this information
during the 5 days when we were waiting for it to start, because they
were coming often around that period.

**Interviewee**: How did you feel about the training?

**Interviewee**: We were satisfied with the training, and we felt that
we could run the digester.

**Interviewer**: You did not feel that you would have issues operating
it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah and when you look at the equipment you just have
to be convinced; if you take a look the plastic basin at the outlet, you
will be convinced - it's not like the plastic basins you know, this on
is of high quality. You cannot just find it in in any shop. Even when
you look at the digester bag, it is not like any other plastic bag, it
is a durable plastic bag. Also, they assured us that if any problem
arises, we should call them; so we were very confident to run or operate
it... And even the pipes, they are not like the pipes you know, and that
you cannot buy in Ndirande \[in local market\]

**Interviewer**: What reasons made you buy the digester?

**Interviewee**: We chose to buy a digester because we wanted to save
money as much as possible. As you know Malawi is in a financial crisis,
and it is very hard to make ends meet. So, at that time, when we thought
about the price of fertilizer that was at K35000 to K40000, we saw that
we could not manage. We did not only focus on fertilizer, we also looked
at everything, for example, food prices, firewood. Then, we thought we
could not manage without the digester; we even thought we could not
afford to buy fertilizer for our tomato and vegetable garden. Also, when
we thought of maize, it was clear that we could not afford fertilizer
and pesticides. For example, last year we had many pests, which caused
serious damage, but we failed to buy pesticide. So, that is when we
thought of Ecogen and of buying a digester.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: We used firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Which was your main source of energy between the two?

**Interviewee**: Charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Do you buy?

**Interviewee**: We buy firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: How much were you spending on energy before the
digester?

**Interviewee**: K40000 -- and that money was enough to use for cooking
food and boiling water for bathing.

**Interviewer**: How much are you spending on charcoal and firewood now?

**Interviewee**: Now, we do not keep records of how much we are spending
on cooking.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: We are not spending a lot... Maybe, we are spending
K12000 on a bag of charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Before the digester, what were you using as pesticide?

**Interviewee**: At first, when pest manifested our coups, we bought
detergent soap, then soak it in water, and then apply it on our crops.
Some other time we were buying small fishing, boil it, and then use the
soup as a pesticide. So, instead of the pests eating the crop they were
consuming the soup. So we were doing that - and even then, it was not
effective, as we could not save all the crops; I can say we were only
able to save a quarter of the produce.

**Interviewer**: How did you learn those methods?

**Interviewee**: It is what people say and do if they do not use
inorganic compounds as pesticides.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: At first, we were gathering the manure to use later as
fertilizer. Sometimes, farmers were coming to ask for the manure, and
sometimes we could just leave it anyhow.

**Interviewer**: In regards to fertilizer, how were you doing it?

**Interviewee**: We were buying expensive organic fertilizer sometimes;
in a growing season, we were buying five, six or seven bags of in
organic fertilizer, and even then, we couldn't manage to apply
fertilizer to all our crops. So, to cope we were applying inorganic
fertilizer added with manure on maize, and on the other side we used to
grow crops that do not need fertilizer, for example, bean and soya
beans.

**Interviewer**: How big is your field?

**Interviewee**: It is very big, close to one \`hectare\` \[a very big
land\].

**Interviewer**: Were you selling the manure to the people who used to
ask for it?

**Interviewee**: No, we were not, even if we wanted to, no one would buy
a bag of 50 kg of cow manure at K1000. People would ask you for K200 a
bag and that is nothing if you consider the effort of finding grass and
it is not worth selling. So, cow manure before the digester was useless.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: It worked perfectly. And, I can say now its performance
is better than it was installed; now, it is better because of the sun,
and because we feed it daily -- so it is good.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get after commissioning?
Were you able to cook breakfast, lunch and supper?

**Interviewee**: We were able to cook lunch and the boil water afterward
(1 hour and 30 minutes)

**Interviewer**: What about breakfast?

**Interviewee**: We were also able to prepare breakfast on it (10 --20
minutes)

**Interviewer**: How do you use the gas? Is it just for cooking?

**Interviewee**: For the time being, the installers have told us that we
can only use it for cooking. But, in the future, they will come and
assist us to use it for lighting as well. And, that time if we had tap
water, then they would have installed a geyser because they came with
one that.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: You just need cow manure, water and sunlight.

**Interviewer**: Where is your source of water?

**Interviewee**: We get water from a borehole.

**Interviewer**: How far is it from here?

**Interviewee**: Not far, it is somewhere that side.

**Interviewer:** \[question inaudible\]

**Interviewee**: Not too, close as well. That is like half a kilometer.

**Interviewer**: How many people do use the gas now?

**Interviewee**: Six people.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who is responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: Everyone feeds it -- everyone has a duty to feed it.
But, mostly the person who looks after the cows feeds it. However, when
he is busy I myself I feed it; I feel like it is my responsibility as
well - and I know how to make feedstock also.

**Interviewer**: Don't you feel that it is a daunting task?

**Interviewee**: It does not feel that way because that is our source of
energy for cooking, and that is our fertilizer too. And, we feel that
the more we feed it, the more effluent and fertilizer we get from it,
which we will apply on our crops and even sell as well.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: The source of manure needs cleanliness and well taken
care of to maintain it; and it is very necessary to ensure that cow
manure does not contain rubbish. Also, the inlet must be covered after
feeding to prevent people especially children from dropping unnecessary
things in the bag. Further, its feedstock needs to be free from any
impurities; if it is cow manure, it has to be cow manure -- and things
like diaper should not be part of the feedstock. Plastic and other
things should also not be part of the feedstock, because such things
block digesters. Also, it is necessary to ensure that the surrounding is
clean and the free from sharp objects that can pierce the digester bag.
And, we need not to allow children or any other people to play around
and on the digester bag; also, no one should be play with the fittings
and pipes.

**Interviewer**: Why? Is the gas dangerous?

**Interviewee**: No, the gas is safe and cannot cause any accident. So
that is only a means of keeping people away from playing with the pipes,
or from using sharp objects to cut the pipes, and also to prevent people
from twisting the pipe thereby blocking the gas.

**Interviewer**: Who is responsible for its maintenance? Do you share
the responsibility with Ecogen?

**Interviewee**: Yes, if it stops working it is the responsibility of
Ecogen to fix it. We cannot call anyone else to fix it, even a
respectable technician. Besides, we do not know anyone who can fix it.

**Interviewer**: Has it ever malfunctioned and called them?

**Interviewee**: Aaaah, no!

**Interviewer**: Ummh.

**Interviewee**: We have never encountered any problem with it since it
was installed.

**Interviewer**: Not even a single problem?

**Interviewee**: One problem is that some people do not know how to
operate. So, some people end up complaining that it is not working while
it is working quite okay. The digester has a certain part \[gas valve\]
that needs to be turned on to have gas at the stove, but some people do
not open the gas at the gate valve, so it doesn't work -- so, it's just
minor confusion. The other challenge comes also when people neglect to
feed it.

**Interviewer**: You have told me that you feel that it is your
firewood, your fertilizer, so why would you neglect to feed it?

**Interviewee**: You know people, people will always be people --
sometimes laziness creeps in.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. Let us
talk about gaps, are you solely using biogas now? Does it meet your
needs?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: You mean you do not use charcoal and firewood anymore?

**Interviewee**: We only use firewood when we choose to use it. But, we
are able to cook using biogas throughout the day.

**Interviewer**: What times do you chooseto use firewood? And, why?

**Interviewee**: We do not have specific times. It only depends on the
preference of a particular person. In this house, we stay six people and
it is not everyone who knows how to use it. So people who don't know how
to use it prefer to use firewood. So, some people use firewood because
someone who knows how to operate it is not around -- yeah!

**Interviewer**: You mean some people don't know how to use a biogas
stove? How?

**Interviewee**: We have people of different age groups, so some are old
and they find it difficult to use it. We also have a child who cannot
manage to reach and open the gate valve that is located close to the
stove.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay. Has there been any time or day where it has
not worked?

**Interviewee**: Ah, no!

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What do you think about this kind of information, and
do you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee**: I cannot speak for anyone else, but as far as I am
concerned, I am okay with the information the installers gave me. I feel
like I understand it, I know it, and we know what we are doing. For
example, we know that when we feed it and open the gas valves and then
switch on the stove, it produce flame and we cook.

**Interviewer**: Okay, if this thing could fail today, what would you
use for energy?

**Interviewee**: We will return to firewood and charcoal - things will
be like theywere in the past.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay, we are remaining with five questions. How
much did this digester cost?

**Interviewee**: I do not know exactly how much we have spent on it.
Maybe, we have spent K1.3 million; K1.2 million for the digester and
K100000 for other work. For example, the money we paid to the people who
collected water during installation phase.

**Interviewer**: Did you pay K1.2 million on the spot, at one go?

**Interviewee**: No, maybe we spent only the K100000 for digging the
hole, drawing water and other things. In addition, as for the K1.2
million, we have not settled it yet.

**Interviewer**: What is your installment plan? Are you going to pay the
money in 6 months or 5 years?

**Interviewee**: It is a 4-year installment.

**Interviewer**: How many people were involved in digging and how much
did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: They were six people, and we paid them K8000.

**Interviewer**: Apart from this work, what other work was involved?

**Interviewee**: Drawing water.

**Interviewer**: How many people did you hire? And, how much did you pay
them?

**Interviewee**: We hired four women and each one was paid K5000.

**Interviewer**: You have said when you look at some of the material you
know that you cannot find it in Ndirande, do you think it was imported
from another country?

**Interviewee**: It seems as everything was imported, starting from the
digester bag, the plastic basins, the pipes, and even the stove it's not
something you can find in Limbe -- the thing looks durable and it's very
heavy -- it's something that cannot break after failing down -- it's not
the stove you see in town -- it's a thing of good quality material.

**Interviewer**: So, but just looking at it you know that it's not from
Malawi?

**Interviewee**: Sure.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with three questions. You have said it
is helping you in saving money; roughly how much money is it saving you
in a month?

**Interviewee**: I can say we are saving more than K60000.

**Interviewer**: A month?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and this time we are only saving money for
cooking, and during the farming season we are expecting to save more
because we are not going to buy fertilizer and even pesticides. We are
also saving money on livestock farming - now we do not need boosters to
have health cows to produce large quantity of milk and of high quality
too -- so you can see that we are saving a lot of money.

**Interviewer**: What is the biggest change in your life now that you
have biogas?

**Interviewee**: Cooking is simple now. In the past we used to think
about igniting and kindling fire, now we do not. And now when we are
late for lunch, for example, when it's 11:45 AM, we know for sure that
we will eat around 12:10 PM -- And that's not far from eating time
(12:00)...... and most people this year are concerned about the price of
fertilizer. They do not think they will be in a position to buy
fertilizer, but if you ask us, we are not bothered about that.

**Interviewer**: We have two questions remaining. What is your opinion
of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is a very good cooking method. The only problem
is that it does not work well when there is no sun -- it does not
produce enough gas when there is no sun. Talking of benefits, I can say
it has many benefits some of which we never thought of --now the money
we were spending on firewood and charcoal we are using to buy cooking
oil and other things.

**Interviewer**: Last one, if you could have designed your own energy or
waste intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I do not think there is nothing else I would choose to
replace biogas. In the past, we tried to use cow manure as fertilizer,
but it did not fully work out. As a result, we were still adding
inorganic fertilizer to make it effective.... You can think of LPG gas,
but it is not as good as biogas because with LPG gas you need K30000 a
month. Yet, with biogas, you do not need that amount of money. You only
need waste, sunlight and water, which are free.

**Interviewer**: That was my last question. In closing, do you have
anything to say?

**Interviewee**: I have talked enough so I am good.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
