**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 20**

**Date: July 26, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: It came from ministry of energy.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay. Who designed it?

**Interviewee**: I think it's the same people from Ministry of Energy.
But, I'm not quite sure about that.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: It was funded by UNDP.

**Interviewer**: What was your role as Nankumba EPA (Extension Planning
Area)?

**Interviewee**: As an office, we were trained as change agents to take
the initiative to the community. So our role wasto make the people
appreciate and adopt biogas technology. Around that time, a number of
technologies were discussed, and promoted that time. The notable ones,
the one that uses animal dung, but we also learned in theory about
digester that use pit latrines. We were told this type of digester was
installed at Mangochi prison. But at the end of the day, they
implemented digesters that use cow manure as feedstock.

**Interviewer**: I think yesterday, I was there. I saw that it. Tell me
about demand; did you manage to create demand as expected?

**Interviewee**: Aah, after seeing one beneficiary using it for two or
three days, I can say there was interest from the people to own
digesters. People thought that these things were admirable because it
was making use of things they normally throw away for cooking. So there
was interest from the people to have this type of technology in their
homes, but its efficiency is what put people off.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean efficiency?

**Interviewee**: Like people saw that it didn't work in other people's
houses; like it wasn't producing gas as they would have liked.

**Interviewer**: How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: It's because we are responsible for overseeing energy
and agriculture activities in the community, so they thought it was a
good thing promote it while we had as well.

**Interviewer**: Apart from that, is there anything else you think why
you were selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: The other important thing was that we had the potential
to run it. First, we had and we still have a cow house within. Secondly,
all of our stuff which where there around that time were trained in
biogas. As a result, it's operation and maintenance was easy because
most of the people had the technical know how of what it all was about.

**Interviewer**: How many cows did you have the time?

**Interviewee**: By then we had nine cows.

**Interviewer**: I can only see one (laughs)

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) they have gone for grazing.

**Interviewer**: So when the installers and the people from ministry of
energy came, what did they tell you to expect from this?

**Interviewee**: Our biggest expectation was concentrated on the end
result. We expected that if the digesters worked, then we would protect
and maintain trees within the community, which are being cut carelessly
to meet energy needs. So our vision was to make people usethis type of
renewable source of energy, rather than cut down trees. And you know it
takes a very long time for a tree to regenerate, so trees are special
and must be taken care of whatever the cost. They also told us that the
technology is kind of sustainable because people and even cows always
produce manure, so it will always be around. So, we anticipated people
to use digestate for purposes of fertilizer. Therefore, the technology
was expected to help people in cooking as well farming by simply taking
the digestate to their farms. Thus, you can see that we had high
expectations,

**Interviewer**: What was UNDP's expectation? I imagine they had the
same vision.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I think to them it was about saving the
environment.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: Of course, we had training as extension workers. I
think 75% of extension workers were trained. But, as for the
beneficiaries, I don't think or remember them receiving any training. If
they received, I don't think I participated in the training.

**Interviewer**: Tell me about the training itself? What was it about?
Like how many people were there? What did you do? What did they say and
all that?

**Interviewee**: eeh, the training itself was participated by
agriculture extension workers together with other stakeholders such as
community development assistants (CDAs), Health surveillance assistants,
and if I'm not mistaken, teachers were there as well. The training was
conducted here at Nankumba EPA. We had people from Mbwadzulu EPA who
came to take part in the training. The training itself took a week, 5
days. The training was both theory and practical. During the training,
we also learned about solar installation, and at the end of the
training, we installed one solar panel within the community.

**Interviewer**: Is the solar system working?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Why? What happened?

**Interviewee**: You know it's a challenge to use and maintain
development aid things in Africa. There were some disagreements within
the school management committee. Some members wanted to use the solar
system for charging phones to generate revenue. Some did not want that.
So, when the solar system battery failed, they failed to replace it. Of
course, schools get funds from the government but there is no provision
for procuring of electrical services or products and the like. So at the
end of day, it failed. I was part of the group, and I was following up
everything that was happening regarding the solar system, but then it
started get to my nerve so I just stopped following the whole thing.

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, why does development aid fail in
Malawi or Africa? For example, we are now here talking about two
failures; one is regarding the solar system and the other concerning
biogas digesters, why does it fail?

**Interviewee**: Some work, some don\'t depending on how it was
introduced or initiated. If you give a person something that he did not
want or envision to have, it\'s hard for that person to maintain that
thing. Whereas, if you give a person something that he or she wants,
chances are high that that person is going to maintain that thing. I
mean, who wants something, must know what and how to handle the thing.
So, there is always a problem with top to down approaches, because it
ends up giving beneficiaries things they didn't imagine having. For
example, if you can give me a car today, I'm sure I would crush in an
accident today, because it's not something I want in my heart. But, if I
want a car and work towards that goal, I would work hard to take care of
it. Thus, if the heart wants something and gets it, you are obliged to
take good care of it because you think of the struggle that was
involved.

**Interviewer**: When it\`s your car, when you see bump, you avoid it
(laughs)

**Interviewee**: Yeah, when you see a bump you avoid it. You even wish
to coming out of the car to flatten the bump (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Right) why did you choose to have this digester here?

**Interviewee**: First, we did consider the movement of waters. As you
can see, this is a high ground, so it's easy for water to travel, and to
avoid water stagnation. Secondly, we considered the movement of the sun
in this area. Of course, now it's cool because of the shadow, but around
2 to 3 PM, the sun is on that side, so there\'s plenty of sunlight here.
Thirdly, we installed it here for security purposes. Around here, we
have full time security personnel who guard the offices. As you can see
also, stuff houses are in the proximity, so was hard for someone to
steal the digester because people always looking here. So, that's why it
was installed at this particular place.

**Interviewer**: How did you use the gas?

**Interviewee**: It's main purpose was for cooking\... This place being
a center of different functions, for example, sometimes we do have
cooking demonstrations with farmer. So, we thought it wise that it was
going to be easy to tell people that it\'s possible to cook using cow
manure while they were actually seeing the whole thing. In this way,
it's easier to create interest in people, and it\'s an effective way of
teaching people regarding biogas. You know there are some things that
are different to understand. For example, you cannot just tell a person
that it's possible to cook using cow manure; you need the person to see
what you are talking about. So, this being a center of the community,
which hosts a lot of people through meetings, it was only wise and easy
to sell the idea of biogas to them.

**Interviewer**: So how did you use the gas? Was it strictly for
demonstration purposes as you have mentioned? Or, you were also using it
for making tea in your office and alike?

**Interviewee**: No, it was made for cooking demonstrations and alike
just like I mentioned. Also, there are certain times we receive visitors
and you want to cook things fast and this was the solution.

**Interviewer**: What times in particular talking? And, which visitors?

**Interviewee**: I\`m think of office meetings... I remember one time;
ACB (Anti-Corruption Bureau) came here to sensitize people on
corruption. So, people do come here to do for various functions and they
even cook during those functions. So, they need energy for cooking. So,
instead of them using firewood, it would have been easy to tell them
about biogas after using it.

**Interviewer**: What do people use now for cooking during cooking
demonstrations and other meetings?

**Interviewee**: It's mostly firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Okay, do they buy firewood or charcoal?

**Interviewee**: People do bring firewood and charcoal. Sometimes, they
do buy. But, it all depends on the size of the function.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you use to start it up?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I have forgotten; 2016 is way far back. So, if I
answer that I may give you wrong information.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) yeah, it's been long. Did you ever use it for
cooking i.e. for any cooking demonstration alike?

**Interviewee**: No, our digester never worked even once. I think the
digester was installed for trial and error purposes because of the way
it was made. The digester bag was simply made of ordinary plastic paper
and two pipes, which were connected on either side acting as an outlet
and inlet. Also, the pipes were made of ordinary PVC pipes, which were
joined to the plastic bags by a rubber. The basic idea was to feed the
bag with feedstock to produce fire for cooking. We were told then that,
in the bags, new feedstock was going to push out old feedstock, as it is
heavier. And whatever was to come out was fertilizer. Unfortunately, the
first digester was made of simple and basic material and didn't work.
After some time, that\'s when they brought new digesters made of more
durable plastic digesters bags. The digesters had also an outlet and
inlet like the first ones. Nonetheless, the second digesters were only
given to the people. Some worked; some didn't. But, as for us, we were
not given the second digesters.

**Interviewer**: Why weren't you given the second digesters?

**Interviewee**: I would be a liar to say I know reason why we were not
given the second digesters.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: Cow dung.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever feed it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: For how long, and in what quantities?

**Interviewee**: We fed it when we were learning about biogas. We also
fed it another time after a certain period.

**Interviewer**: Uumh.

**Interviewee**: Because after the training, they came again and it was
around that time that we fed again. But, it never worked out.

**Interviewer**: How long after the training?

**Interviewee**: Maybe a week or two.

**Interviewer**: How much did you feed it?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I have forgotten as well.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who was responsible for feeding it? Was it you or
you employed some people?

**Interviewee**: Everybody who received training was responsible for
feeding it.

**Interviewer**: How was it like? Didn't people complain about it?

**Interviewee**: No, they spent money on us in terms of training
allowances, so it was time for us to pay back (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) yeah, yeah, I see. What were the maintenance
requirements?

**Interviewee**: There were no major issues pertaining to maintenance.
We were simply told to take good care of the digester bags which itself
was easy because the plastic digester bags was made of two layers of
plastic. In regards to repairing and fixing it, I don't remember them
telling us who were responsible or anything like that. If they did, I
might have missed it. This is how they constructed it \[takes phone to
show pictures of the digester\]; you can see it was just a bag joined
with two pipes that were tied to it.

**Interviewer**: I think I need these pictures. Please send me on when
you are able

**Interviewee**: Okay \[then stop to answer a phone call\]

**Interviewer**: Okay, what challenges did you encounter?

**Interviewee**: The concept of the new technology of biogas was good.
But, the fact that it did not work was disheartening; the idea of
cooking without firewood was a good idea, but the fact that we had to
sweat and put in effort without gaining anything out of it was
horrible - it was a major drawback. Also, the beneficiaries expected us
to provide information and support to them in all issues regarding
operation and maintenance because they saw that we had received
training. But in truth, we were blank. We didn't have knowledge and
information to pass to them. We did not know what to tell them or what
they supposed to doing case of a break down. So, that was also a major
challenge. Of course, we were trained and they reported the problems to
us; but there was nothing we could have done to support them. And, it
was funny that we had more challenges with our digesters than the
beneficiaries themselves; so that was a major problem. Eventually,
people realized that it was not viable, so some removed the materials,
and some used the materials for other purposes like roofing. So that\'s
how it was. Another thing is that the project implementers didn't follow
up after installing the digesters. Of course, they came once and never
came again. They only came this other time with equipment for making
briquettes. They told us that they were going to give our office the
equipment, but have not brought it and it's been years now; it was
chaos, confusion. The same people come again, and they said they were
coming with a project of MAREP \[Malawi Rural Electrification
Programme\]... So, the major challenge was lack of follow up. Secondly,
there was knowledge gap. It was big and I shouldn't make try to downplay
it. There was a huge, huge knowledge gap among the beneficiaries and
extension worker who were trained. I also feel there was a deficit in
the approach itself. I think there was a problem with multi-sector
approach that they used. I'm saying this because some of the people who
were part of the training did not fully comprehend the whole concept of
biogas, and cared less because they felt that it was mainly the
responsibility of the agriculture extension workers. So, they pulled out
and left the whole thing to one person \[to me\].

**Interviewer**: Why do you think this project failed? I mean, how did
UNDP implement such a big project, and eventually fail? I'm sure the
follow-ups must have been in the scope of the project. What happened?

**Interviewee**: It's possible to fail.This was a technical project.
Projects that are technical in nature are difficult to implement. The
problem wasn't UNDP. There are so many projects that have failed but
they are never reported, so you think things are working. But, in truth
we just hear about the projects are successful and working.

**Interviewer**: You said that this project was try and error. Why do
you think this biogas project was in quote "trial and error"?

**Interviewee**: I cannot explicitly say so, because I don't have the
evidence to back it up. But, I can fully say this project did not work
-- it failed. Even then, regardless if it was trial and error, they
should have produced a report with proper recommendations based on the
findings. With this project, there was no report and there was no follow
up. They did not come to explain the whole thing to us. I remember when
they came they said similar projects were being implemented in districts
like Nkhatabay Salima, Machinga and Mangochi. I think they were
implementing this project in lakeshore areas where the temperature is
high because all the districts I have mentioned are hot places. So, if
it did not work here in Mangochi, do you expect it to work in Salima?
What about Nkhatabay? What happened in those areas? Did they fail as we
failed? I think it would have been better if they came to explain how
the digesters in those areas worked. Then, we could have a picture of
this innovation. But, nothing came up; even a mere report of how things
were going or how things transpired here.

**Interviewer**: So as an office, did you reach out do UNDP, or
installers, or the Ministry of energy itself?

**Interviewee**: We don't know the donor on the communication level.
Secondly, I don\'t know whether it was a project or a programme. They
didn\'t tell us much about that. I'm sure if it was a project then
things would have been better, because we could have had a focal person,
a coordinator. What I know is the people from Ministry of energy were
running the program and are the ones who were coming. They people were
just coming to do their thing and then go. It was like that all the
times. But as far as I'm concerned, I cannot explicitly say if it was a
project or not. Or, if it was a project or programme, who was funding
it, and how much money was involved. If I say I know all that then I
would be a liar because I only heard that but it wasn't official
communication.

**Interviewer**: Did you reach out to the people from the ministry that
you failed?

**Interviewee**: They were coming so they knew that they had failed.

**Interviewer**: Calling a shade a spade, why do you think caused this
digester and the whole project to fail.

**Interviewee**: It's hard for me to say why this thing failed. I would
be a liar to say I know why. But one major problem was that, we learnt
so many things within a very short time. Like I said we had a five-day
training session, but within that time frame, we learnt about biogas,
solar installation, and all that. I think the training about biogas
itself needed ample time to allow people to become conversant with the
technology especially its maintenance. Learning about maintenance of
biogas is not easy thing, and it's very involving. It needs time. The
installers should have concentrated more on maintenance. So, I feel they
just installed the digester for the sake of it; they made it too simple;
they just wanted to fulfill their obligation of installing the digester
rather than making it work. overall, I can't point out the specific
causes for its failure; it\`s just complicated.

**Interviewer**: How do you manage feedstock now?

**Interviewee**: Mostly, we use cow manure as fertilizer in our plots.
Some of the manure is also picked by people for farming purposes.

**Interviewer**: Do you sell?

**Interviewee**: No, I don't.

**Interviewer**: So, if someone wants to get manure from your office,
what's the procedure?

**Interviewee**: We feel like it's a community thing. So they just need
to come and ask for it. If we don\'t need it, we let them have it.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How much
did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: I don't know. We just saw them bringing the pipes, the
bags and all the equipment. So, this is the team, which brought the
things \[takes phone\]. The person in blue is \[name redacted\] from
Ministry of Energy, I remember him.

**Interviewer**: Did you or your organization anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No, not even a glass of water! (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) how much labour was involved?

**Interviewee**: There was a lot of labour. Let me see how many people
are there in this picture. More than eight people. We were many!

**Interviewer**: How many came from the Installation company or
ministry? And how many were you from agricultural office?

**Interviewee**: I think we were five, if not six people from the
office. Two or three people came from the ministry.

**Interviewer**: Who did the digging work?

**Interviewee**: It was our ground labourer. He was one; the hole was
shallow.

**Interviewer**: Was there any masonry work?

**Interviewee**: Oh no... I think yeah. The hole was lined with a brick
wall.

**Interviewer**: Who did that?

**Interviewee**: I can't remember.

**Interviewer**: What kind of special items had to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, looks like all the things are from Malawi.
Looking at this plastic bag (points to the picture on the phone). It
looks like from it's from Malawi. Maybe, I don't know. Maybe, they got
that from another country, I don'tknow.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with two questions. What is your
opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: In general, I can say it's good. It's renewable energy.
It's user friendly. It produces strong fire and it's fast; and, it\'s
smoke free.

**Interviewer**: Our study is basically looking at biogas failures, and
I must say the failures are enormous. If I can bring the question to
you, why do you think biogas digesters are failing in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: Why? Maybe because it works well in hot weather so it's
activities are affected by weather by design -- Maybe that\'s why it\'s
failing. It could also be the people we think are expert are not
necessarily experts. They too need and have a lot to learn about biogas.
Or, maybe because people are just doing it for academy research, so once
they defending their papers or dissertation they just let the whole
thing go - so, that could be another issue - People are just doing it
for the sake of school. Once they get a paper, or after getting a
master's in renewable energy, then that's the end of it. So, that's
another key issue. People are more eager and focused on getting a paper
rather than making a change or on the technology itself to get tangible
results on the ground. You know these days everyone can defend a project
paper or dissertation, provided there is money. So we are failing
because people are more focused on producing a paper instead of making
this technology work and helping the people on the ground. So, I think
that's the main issue. Personally, I do believe it's possible to
implement biogas technology. It seems feasible, tangible and it can
work... Maybe, we are doing things too fast in terms of doing things to
implement these things to impress others. But, the main issue is that
people are doing it to get papers, and not to help people. If you look
at our project, you may even be surprised to find out that maybe some
student got funding to UNDP to work on biogas, so after getting the his
masters it is over.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) okay, if you would have designed your waste or
energy intervention, what could you have choice instead of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Including solar?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, even solar!

**Interviewee**: It's the same thing, and nothing else! But, it just
needs proper input and output. As you know, input affects quality of a
product or service. So, for this to work, we just need to change or
correct our thinking, and the way we use our things. So biogas is good
and feasible. This is to the gas people buy from market (LPG gas). So,
even for people to accept and start using LPG it took time. So, biogas
needs a good research to make it work and sustainable. But if we keep
doing things in haste, it can't work. So, it needs a comprehensive
research to make it work better. We can do this..... Imagine, a person
in Likuni is making diesel fuel out of papers, so this can also be
done.... But, that person needs the government through Ministry of
Energy to support him. The government should look into his ideas and
provide support when necessary. So, he just needs support from
government to make him better. But, the problem with Malawi is it
doesn't appreciate talent. We are always after papers, so if a person
doesn't have papers, it's impossible to get support from the
government - and that\'s why we\'re not developing as a country....
People who are educated need to go to that person and learn from him and
government need to give him the equipment to realize his dream..... You
know paper is everywhere, so if we can manage to get paper and use it
for fuel it could be a good thing, and it's long term. It can also help
many people to get jobs. But, the problem is that here in Malawi we
don't supporting one another.

**Interviewer**: Who is this person? I have never heard of him.

**Interviewee**: Really? Are you here in Malawi? People are doing great
things here. Serious, there is a person in Lilongwe who is making diesel
fuel using plastic paper. He is even challenging people that his product
is good and can't break down a car. But, because we always pull each
other down, you will start hearing that it's against policies and that
if he continues he will damage people's cars. They will even put him in
jail if he continues. But, I have heard the South African government is
trying to help him; they have brought in some caterpillars to help to
clear the land to open his plant. The Malawi government can't help him
because he is from the ghetto. But, if it was some rich kid, you could
have heard that the government that is willing to support him.

**Interviewee**: Interesting. I will try to look for the story. Yeah,
this is the end of the interview. Thanks for the interview, \[name
redacted\]!

**Interviewer**: Cheers!
