**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 24**

**Date: July 26, 2022**

**Interviewer:** Where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee:** It came with \[name redacted\], the agriculture
extension worker -- When he came, he identified a place and told us to
dig a hole for the digester to be placed. Simply put it came with me our
extension worker, \[name redacted\].

**Interviewer:** When was this?

**Interviewee:** It has been three years. It was 2018, if not 2017.

**Interviewer:** Who built it?

**Interviewee:** Four people built it; they line the digester with a
brick wall; prepared the feedstock to start it up, and of course, draw
water to feed it and other things.

**Interviewer:** Who were these four people?

**Interviewee:** It was two us, and two other people; we hired them to
assist us with the work.

**Interviewer:** How much did you pay them?

**Interviewee:** We paid them K5000.

**Interviewer:** How long did it take to build the digester?

**Interviewee:** Firstly, they told us to dig a hole, and then build a
brick wall around it. Then, they told us to wait for a day to allow the
brick wall to dry. The following day, they came and installed the
digester bag. They also made a structure for the stove on the same day.
All this took three days.

**Interviewer:** I take it that it was not just the four of you, who
were involved in the building process. I believe the four of you worked
with the people who brought the digester. How many people from the
installation of company were involved in the construction or
installation process?

**Interviewee:** There was \[name redacted\] and two other extension
workers of which one was short and dark in complexion. On top of this,
there were two other people. They were not from this community nor
extension workers.

**Interviewer:** Okay**,** what was your role?

**Interviewee:** Our main role was to find people to make a hole for the
digester bag and to prepare feedstock to start it up. Besides this, we
were also responsible for sourcing bricks for making a brick wall around
the hole. Therefore, we went around the community to find a broken
bricks for the wall. Nowadays, you cannot do that.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: People do sell broken bricks these days. It is just not
possible to find broken bricks going free of charge like in the past

**Interviewer**: What has changed really?

**Interviewee**: Everything is about money now. In the past, we could go
to a brick clamp or a house construction, and get broken bricks free and
build a pit latrine. Now people ask for money even for broken bricks.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: It was \[name redacted\], the extension worker, who
identify us. In this community only two people were given the digester,
it \[name redacted\] and I.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think you were chosen? I mean, you are too
many people in this community, why you?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) they chose us because we had cows, I think.
There was a cow house there. That is my mother.

**Interviewer**: Hello, mom. Yeah, we are doing a research about biogas.
I came in June in preparation of this visit. I hope you were told. Right
now, we are just chatting about your experiences with the digester.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they give me this digester. However, after
commissioning, I could only cook porridge and vegetables. After a little
time, it stopped producing gas; it was on and off.

**Interviewer**: Okay, then you can join us. I understand it has been
many years, so it would be wonderful if you can join us and remind each
other some of the things. I was asking my sister here why they chose you
to be a beneficiary, and she told me it is because that time you had
cows...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and that is true. It was because of the cows.

**Interviewer**: How many cows did you have?

**Interviewee**: We had 10 cows, but I was not the sole owner.

**Interviewer**: what do you mean?

**Interviewee**: Out of the 10 Cowboys, four were mine. The rest of the
cows where brought by other people so that I could keep for them.

**Interviewer**: Why asking you to keep for them?

**Interviewee**: They so that it was secure for them to keep the cows
here; they had challenges keeping the cow.

**Interviewer**: How many people?

**Interviewee**: Two people

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee**: No, I did not.

**Interviewer**: Sister did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: So it was a new thing for both of you?

**Interviewee**: It was a new thing to many; it was not only us.

**Interviewee#2**: and people were coming to see it. I used to show them
how to feed it and how the bag gets full after feeding. Moreover, then I
would show them how to operate it.

**Interviewer**: Oh nice, did you show them how to cook nsima on biogas
and all that?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, no nsima. The firewood was not staying long, by
now it could have stopped \[referencing the time taken for the interview
(about 25 minutes)\].

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: I thought I was very lucky. In this community, only two
of us benefited. So, we accepted the digester because we thought we were
lucky to have it.

**Interviewer**: You thought you had hit a jackpot.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Yeah, so we thought I would use it for
cooking. So, we expected to stop going around searching for firewood. We
expected to have rest; we expected to take a break from sourcing
firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where do you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: At the mountains.

**Interviewer**: How far?

**Interviewee**: We leave in the morning and return after 12 or 1 PM.

**Interviewer**: What time exactly in the morning?

**Interviewee**: We leave around 5 am

**Interviewer**: eh, eh, it\`s far.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, is very far. The mountain is far from here.

**Interviewer**: I thought you have trees around, why do you not just
you use the trees from within?

**Interviewee**: The mango trees? No! The trees give us fruits, my son

**Interviewer**: I understand it is not easy to get wood from mountains.
You think of forest officers and everything. How is it like that side?

**Interviewee**: No, it is just like woodland. Plus, we have relatives
who own land around, so we ask and get firewood from them.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so when \[name redacted\] and his team came, what
did they say you should expect from with the digester? What did they say
about the digester?

**Interviewee**: They build the digester here so that I could use it for
cooking -- And when things were working I reported to \[name redacted\].
He came and saw that it was not producing enough; and, he told us that
the digester was not producing gas as it was supposed to.

**Interviewee2**: So, when he came that time and saw it producing little
gas, we expected him to bring a new digester that we could use without
problems.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did they tell you that it could use it for
lighting?

**Interviewee**: They did not -- This one was only meant for cooking.

**Interviewer**: What type of training did you receive from the
installers?

**Interviewee**: They simply told me to feed it with six bags of cow
manure. They said after feeding it, I will be able to know that it was
good by just looking at how the bag was inflated. And, when the bag was
full, they came and they showed me how to switch it on.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you about maintenance?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What did they tell you to do when the bag was not
getting full?

**Interviewee**: They told us to feed it with food leftovers and
everything decomposes, and we were doing just that.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the digester did you
feel were?

**Interviewee**: Very much so. And, we loved the digester, and we
embraced it.

**Interviewer**: So you felt what they told you was enough to operate it
and maintain it?

**Interviewee**: yeah, that is what we were told, and we thought it was
fine.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? Did you use anything apart from firewood?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, we get wood from the mountains. So, when
this came we are so happy, and thought it was our time to stop going to
the mountains to look forward.

**Interviewer**: Now, if you want to cook, do you still go there?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we still go there.

**Interviewer**: how is the situation there? Is firewood not depleting?

**Interviewee**: it is depleting... Its depleted because of people who
go there to cut trees to make charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Then, how are you going to survive?

**Interviewee**: We do not know -- You should help us with alternatives.

**Interviewer**: (laugh) oh

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) and as you can see, I am getting old. The last
time they cheated to me about using it for cooking, so you need to
support me on finding a solution to cooking.

**Interviewer**: Let us assume, I am not there, how are you going to
survive?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) you do not have to disappear. Do not shun us
(laughs)! But, if worse come to worse, we will leave with no option, but
on depend on maize stalk. But we cannot and do not rely on that, because
it is somewhat seasonal.

**Interviewer**: You said you had 10 cows; four were yours and six were
from other people. How many do you have now?

**Interviewee**: We do not have any. Thieves stole from us.

**Interviewer**: Oh, true?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, you can even ask the kids. We tried everything to
get it back, but couldn\'t.

**Interviewer**: When was this?

**Interviewee**: Last year. They only left us with one cow.

**Interviewer**: In most cases, people go to tradition witchdoctors
after such an event, especially in cow farming. What did you do?

**Interviewee**: Eh, we tried literally everything -- And it is not only
us, many people from the village were robbed that day. I am sure they
used strong juju \[black magic\], because that cannot just happen. And,
when we went to witch doctors nothing happened, so I am sure they used
strong juju.

**Interviewer**: Sorry for your loss. How did you manage the feedstock
before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: We simply gathered and processed the manure, and later
use it as manure in our fields. That time I was able to gather 5 bags
(50 kg) of manure, but if a man was doing that, he could have gathering
more. So, from that I was able to harvest16 bags (50 kg) of manure.

**Interviewer**: Oh impressive, how much manure did you start it up
with?

**Interviewee**: We started with six or seven buckets (20 kg) of cow
manure.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the manure?

**Interviewee**: I got it from my cow house.

**Interviewer**: How much water did add?

**Interviewee**: We started it with 5 buckets of (20 liters) of water.
And, it was lot of work to prepare the feedstock at the first time. But,
afterwards it was simple because we were feeding it a bucket or so.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: From a borehole.

**Interviewer**: How far is it from here?

**Interviewee**: So far is there?

**Interviewer**: That is 400 or 500 meters away. How long did it take to
start up?

**Interviewee**: It took one week.

**Interviewer**: How did it start after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: After feeding it with the initial feedstock, we waited
for a week for it to start up. During that week, the bag was getting
bigger and bigger each day. On the 7^th^ day, it got full.
Unfortunately, the gas we got was not strong enough to cook nsima. Like
I said, I was only using it for cooking vegetables and porridge or light
side dishes \[15 -- 30 minutes\]. And it was always on and off;
sometimes we could switch it on and got little gas; sometimes we did not
get gas at all.

**Interviewer**: Specifically, how much cooking time did you get when it
worked? Were you able to cook breakfast lunch and supper?

**Interviewee**: No, as I said, we could not cook on nsima on it. We
only used it for cooking porridge and vegetables.

**Interviewer**: Okay, that is like 15 or so minutes of gas. Apart from
cooking, did you use it for any other purpose?

**Interviewee**: No, it was only for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many people used it?

**Interviewee**: We were 3 people.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: For it to function, it needed to be fed with cow
manure. They also told us to feed it with food leftovers.

**Interviewer**: How often did you feed the digester?

**Interviewee**: Once we saw that the bag was not full.

**Interviewer**: So you were basically waiting on it to shrink to feed?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, once we saw that the bag was not going to get
full, that\'s when we were feeding it.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you feed it on a daily basis?

**Interviewee**: I do not know if it was laziness, but in most cases it
was taking as three or four days to feed it.

**Interviewer**: Did the installers tell you how you were supposed to
feed it?

**Interviewee**: They did

**Interviewer**: What did they say?

**Interviewee**: They told us to feed it with cow manure, but my
thinking was it was not going to take time provided again or to use it.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We were simply putting the manure in a bucket, add
water, and mix with a wooden stir or stick. After mixing, we were
pouring the mixer into the digester bag.

**Interviewer**: Many people have told me that they were advised to use
hand instead of stir to have good slurry. What is your take?

**Interviewee**: We were also getting good slurry using a stick because
some of the manure was fresh.

**Interviewer**: You were also using dry manure?

**Interviewee**: We were just collecting manure, so some of the manure
was dry.

**Interviewer**: Were you pre-treating the feedstock? For example, did
you soak the manure for a certain time before feeding it?

**Interviewee**: No, we were just mixing the manure after collecting it
from the cow house.

**Interviewer**: What was ratio of your feedstock? I mean, how much
water were you adding to the manure?

**Interviewee**: Mostly, I was feeding it with seven buckets (20 liters)
cow manure, and I was adding seven buckets (20 liters) of water.

**Interviewer**: OK, So, it was a 1:1 ratio. Who was responsible for
feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was responsible

**Interviewer**: What about my sister here?

**Interviewee**: She was also supporting me

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the task of feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It\'s hard work. But, it's worth it, if it can work
without issues.

**Interviewer**: In your case, was it worth it?

**Interviewee**: The fact that we did not use it for cooking nsima, it's
hard to say it was worth it. You know in Malawi, eating is synonym to
nsima (laughs). Nsima is everything!

**Interviewer**: Did you get fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: The installer told us that after feeding it for some
time, it produces digestate that can be used as fertilizer. They also
told us that what remain I the bag is fertilizer, so when it stopped we
got and used it as fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: What was your outlet like?

**Interviewee**: We dug a hole onto which the digester was flowing in.
They told us that we could use the digester as fertilizer, so we used to
collect the digestate and apply it in our farms.

**Interviewer**: What was your take on the digestate? How did you
compare it with inorganic fertilizer or the fertilizer you where getting
from you manure?

**Interviewee**: We don't use inorganic fertilizer. But, when we used
the digestate, it worked.

**Interviewer**: Why don't you use in organic fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: We can\'t afford it - we don\'t have money to buy
inorganic fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Now that you have only one cow. What will you do?

**Interviewee**: My sister has a cow house, so I have moved the
remaining cow to her place.

**Interviewer**: So you will get manure from her?

**Interviewee**: I will probably get manure from her.

**Interviewer**: You sound so unsure, I mean, what is the plan now
regarding fertilizer now that you don't cows?

**Interviewee**: I will grow maize without any fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Is it possible in Malawi to grow maize without
fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I do grow maize without fertilizer. What can I do
when I don't have the money?

**Interviewer**: And you do harvest enough?

**Interviewee**: Of course, we do get low yield. But, what can we do, my
son?

**Interviewer**: yeah, I see it's tough. What were the maintenance
requirements?

**Interviewee**: The only told us to feed it, and after that feeding it
for a long time, it was going to start producing manure -- So that was
what I was doing.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you anything about how to fix or repair
it?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Maybe, if it was installed properly, it would have met
our needs. And, I think, had it worked as I expected, I would have the
happiest person because I expected a lot; I expected it to take away all
my cooking problems... I don't know if it was your team or not, who came
to ask me similar questions and gave me three bundles of wood at the
end.

**Interviewer**: No, it wasn\`t us. It seems it did not meet your needs,
because you could not cook nsima and the like, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I couldn't cook in nsima; if I could have cooked
nsima on it, it would have been just one portion of nsima; I couldn't
cook nsima for two people.

**Interviewer**: What challenges were there?

**Interviewee**: It didn't work us one would do expect. I expected that
I could use it for cooking but I never did.

**Interviewer**: Could you describe the fire you were getting?

**Interviewee**: It was produce very little fire green in color. And, it
was only producing fire for a very short time, after a short time it was
going off completely.

**Interviewer**: How much time was it?

**Interviewee**: Just enough to cook porridge. After cooking porridge,
it could not produce fire.

**Interviewer**: Maybe 15 - 30 minutes?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How long did it work before it stopped?

**Interviewee**: It worked for two or three months, after that it
stopped completely. Then, I reported to \[name redacted\], the extension
worker, who told me to wait, and hope that the installers would come
again.

**Interviewer**: So you only used it for two months.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it worked for three months. After that, it
stopped completely. I don't know how the other beneficiaries fared
though.

**Interviewer**: Most of them they did fare like yours; two months, one
month, one week, but there is one who used it for two years.

**Interviewee**: Two years? \[Surprised\]

**Interviewer**: Yeah, they told me it was only working around lunchtime
though.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that\'s how it was for all of us. And, when we
met and asked each other, the stories were kind of the same.

**Interviewer**: You are saying after it failed you reported to \[name
redacted\], is there anything else you did before you reported to \[name
redacted\]? Did you try to fix it?

**Interviewee**: No, we just reported to \[name redacted\]. When he
came, he just moved around the bag. Then, he said we should just hope
that the installers would one day come again.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take him to come after you report?

**Interviewee**: He was quick. He came on the same day. And, when we met
him on the road he would tell me not to worry, and that the installers
would come one day.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. We have
done 80% of the interview. Moving on, have you ever seen something like
this \[intervention sheet\]?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this type of information, and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it would have helped.

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: We would have learned more about the digester from that
information.

**Interviewer**: Why would that be important?

**Interviewee**: It would have helped. This information is like you have
been given a phone number. If you are given a phone number and you have
a problem, you look for the contact and then make a call. In the same
manner, if there was a problem, we could have been going to this
information and act accordingly.

**Interviewer**: Okay, today is 26 July. How do you describe the state
your digester today?

**Interviewee**: Of all the things that I was given I'm only remaining
with the pipes. As you can see, we have children running around so they
misplaced everything. Thus, most of the things were damaged or lost
because of them. Everything is lost except for the pipes and its inside.
Also, we do have the bag, it\`s there on the roof structure.
\[Interrupted by another woman\]

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you are telling me it's dead; all the things are
lost except for the pipes and the digester bag, which is now a roof
sheet.

**Interviewee**: Yeah. It's dead. We only have the pipes and digester
bag.

**Interviewer**: Okay, why do you think it failed?

**Interviewee**: It's because of how it worked after it was
commissioned. I reported to \[name redacted\] how it was working, but
nothing happened. So, it was more like throwing away a piece of cloth on
the ground and leaving it there. What happens? You find it eaten and
damaged by the termites.

**Interviewer**: So you are saying it reached this state because it
never really got off well and the installers did not follow-up?

**Interviewee**: Yep, it is because of the installers. They left us in
the middle of the journey; they did not come to service it when it
malfunctioned. But, let me not pull them down, I might be wrong.

**Interviewer**: Oh, (laughs) why? You think you would not be fair to
them?

**Interviewee**: They gave us the digester, which is kindness on its own
and then told us to feed it, so maybe we did not feed it right.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that? And, how were you feeding it
again?

**Interviewee**: Because it is the only reason, I can think of as a
reason that made it fail. As far as feeding it, I was feeding it with 6
buckets of manure and 5 buckets of water every three or four days.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with 5 questions or so. How much did
the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I cannot know. I can only remember that a lot of
people we are coming in big cars -- and we simply accepted it and did
not follow the other things.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No. Nothing!

**Interviewer**: You told me bricks.

**Interviewee**: Oh, yeah, bricks, and the people I paid to build the
wall around it.

**Interviewer**: Apart from that, what else?

**Interviewee**: That is all.

**Interviewer**: How many people were there involved in digging?

**Interviewee**: It was my two boys and me.

**Interviewer**: How many did masonry work?

**Interviewee**: It was two, and it took them two days.

**Interviewer**: Did it help you to save money?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Approximately, how much do you feel you saved?

**Interviewee**: I saved maybe K3000... I sell traditional whisky, so
that's my source of income. So, the money I saved came from that
business (laughs).

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you use the digester for Kachasu (African
traditional whisky) brewing?

**Interviewee**: No, That was for cooking nsima and side dish. And,
that's where we could have benefited more. That's for cooking nsima and
not Kachasu.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: Aah no, my brother, Kachasu is not easy to cook;
Kachasu needs a lot of energy to boil.

**Interviewer**: Maybe you are underestimating the digester. It produces
strong flames.

**Interviewee**: But, not to the point of cooking hard meals, and
certainly not Kachasu. Kachasu requires a lot of fire. We use two
bundles of firewood to make Kachasu. So, if you tell me that the
digester can boil water for bathing, I would agree, but not Kachasu.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) what was the biggest difference in your life
when it was working?

**Interviewee**: The biggest change was that I was cooking without
bothering about igniting fire. I was cooking like I was in town or
somewhere, and I loved it. So, that was the biggest difference.

**Interviewer**: You wish to live in town?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) who doesn't want to live in town. Is there a
person who doesn't want good things (laughs)? That time it was like the
town came to our village. Nankumba was like a town to us that time, for
sure.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good and it is my prayer that one day I will
have it again. Moreover, I would like to be trained properly afterwards,
so that I could manage it properly -- that's all I want. I still think
about it, and I wonder how we missed that opportunity, and how it didn't
work. Nevertheless, throughout this time, \[name redacted\] has always
been encouraging me; he comes repeatedly, and he is always telling me
not to lose hope because the installer one day would come.

## **Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi? Is the future bright or dim? Where do you see it five years?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it has a bright future. I didn't know about it,
but some people gave me. We have people who want others to have it, so
it will spread in the end.

**Interviewer**: You were given one, and someone in this village was
given one. But, not even one is working today. Do you think it's
manageable?

**Interviewee**: It would be improper for me to say it can\'t work
because I didn't stay with it for long. So, I don't really know it well,
and I also don't know what went wrong. Maybe, I did something wrong on
it; maybe they didn't install it properly. So, I can't say it\`s
unmanageable.

**Interviewer**: Last question, if you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I would chose the same if I had cows. But now I don't
have cow I can't manage it. Maybe I can be sourcing it from other
people, but like I have said everything is about money these day.
Imagine if people would sell broken bricks, what more manure. So, if
there can be a technology that can be used without using money regularly
I would go for that.

**Interviewer**: Okay, do you have any last words?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is a good thing to have. And I'm a very lucky
person to have been given one. I never expected it come to me. In this
village, we are too many, and to be a beneficiary is luck. The world is
changing; the world is not like it was some years back, so we need this
kind of thing to replace traditional methods of cooking. -- Yeah, I was
excited that I got a Biogas.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome and thanks for coming
