**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 29**

**Date: August 14, 2022**

**Interviewer:** Thanks for granting us a phone interview. What came to
your house today last time but we did not find you. Again, we went to
your previous house in Mbwadzulu were the digester was installed, but we
found that you had moved to Nankumba, and that's when we came to your
house in Nankumba. I heard you are an extension worker, which is a good
thing because most people we talked to were mere beneficiaries. So, we
hope to learn more and get a different perspective in regards to biogas.
First question, where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: I know that it came from Minister of Energy. At that
time, they were implementing a pilot project concerning renewable
energy. Therefore, biogas was one component of the project. But, main
components of the project were efficient stove and briquette making.

**Interviewer**: So, it was more of an environmental project?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was at a renewable energy project, and biogas
testing and installation was one part of it.

**Interviewer**: Who designed the digester?

**Interviewee**: Initially, we tried a locally made digester. It was
made of a thick ordinary plastic digester bag. Two ends of the digester
bag were tied to pipes, one acting as an inlet and outlet. We placed the
bag in a shallow hole. So, this one was designed by people from Energy
Affairs. Sadly, this one did not work. Then, after a year or so, they
brought a different digester. They said it was imported from China, and
this one to some extent worked.

**Interviewer**: Who built the digesters? First, let us look at the
first digester, and then the second one.

**Interviewee**: It has been a long so I do not know who really built
it. However, I remember that the first one was a locally made digester
by people from Energy Affairs. I do not really remember when it came,
but I think it was 2017 or 2018. And, it preceded the second digester by
a year or so.

**Interviewer**: You have said the first one was a failure, what do you
mean?

**Interviewee**: It never produced fire; it never worked out. And, I can
say what we learnt about biogas that time was a waste.

**Interviewer**: What did you learn? And, why do say that?

**Interviewee**: We learned about its operation; we learned that to work
it needs fresh cow manure; and that we were supposed to feed it every
morning with fresh cow manure; we also learned that gas move from the
digester bag to the pipes, and then to the stove. However, the first
digester had a different stove from the second one. The first one had a
stove made by local artisans, but the second digester had a stove that
looked factory made. It had also other improvements, for example, it had
a bottle for gas purification.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to build the first digester and
the second one?

**Interviewee**: It took a day to build the first one. But, the second
one took long because the hole took long to dig. However, the task of
digging was responsibility of the beneficiary. So, some people hired
people to dig for them to speed up the process... In addition, of
course, before we commenced any work, we had one-day training. So, we
did what was discussed in the training.

**Interviewer**: Okay! What was your role?

**Interviewee**: My role as a beneficiary was to dig the hole for the
digester, and to feed the digester daily after its installation. Also,
whatever we were doing was exemplary because it was a project for
community members to learn and adopt the technology of biogas.

**Interviewer**: How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: The first consideration to be chosen as it beneficiary
was that the person had the potential to source fresh cow manure. So,
the first requisite was that the beneficiary was supposed to have cows.
On top of the first consideration, the person was supposed to have
interest in the digester and the commitment to feed it. Thirdly, the
beneficiary was to be a person who was using firewood or charcoal for
cooking. This was not a big issue because every person was expected to
be using firewood or charcoal. Thus, because the project was intended to
stop people from using firewood or charcoal and to enjoy the benefits of
biogas, the beneficiary was supposed to be a charcoal or firewood user
at all cost.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I did not know anything. I knew about biogas during
the one-day training.

**Interviewer**: I believe many people were eligible to get a digester,
so how was the selection process?

**Interviewee:** As area extension workers, we chose an implementation
area, and then we engaged the community people to brief them about the
project. During the engagement meetings with the community, people were
selecting those who they thought would manage the digesters bearing in
mind the work that was involved. Of course, we had a limit of
beneficiaries. I think in Mbwadzulu 6 people were chosen.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you are right. I think it was five or six people.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was five people. So, I can say the selection
process was community led with people considering the work required. In
addition, it was more of a self-selection process as some people removed
themselves voluntarily saying that they would not manage.

**Interviewer**: So was it like the whole community was there?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it was the whole village. For example, Mbwadzulu
village chose five people.

**Interviewer:** Okay, okay. But, you were not chosen through that
process since you were an extension worker, I suppose.

**Interviewee:** Yeah, yeah after choosing themselves, they decided that
one should be installed at the agriculture office to see if the digester
really works.

**Interviewer:** (laughs) okay

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Yeah, for others to see, learn, and appreciate
if it\`s practical. So, it was more like a demo, and in fact, before the
beneficiaries were given the digester they learned from that digester.

**Interviewer**: What did the people learn?

**Interviewee**: Basically, they learnt that the digestate is
fertilizer. They also learnt how to make feedstock for the digester.

**Interviewer:** So, was it given to agriculture office or to you as an
individual?

**Interviewee:** The plan was to install it at agriculture office. But
questions were raised that if it was to be installed at agriculture
office, then who was going to use it. Then, that's when they decided to
plant it at my house. So, I can say it was planted at my house because
they wanted a specific person to feed and use it.

**Interviewer:** So, how many people were there at agriculture office
then, and why did they choose you out of all people?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) the other extension workers just said that it
should be installed at "the bosses' house".

**Interviewer**: (laughs) oh, because you are the boss....

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Yeah, also because out of the two agriculture
extensional workers who attended the training, I was the one who was
staying closer to the office. The other one was staying in the field at
Sawuya. So, I can say I was chosen because I was the one living closest
to the agriculture office and who had knowledge about it.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: As a charcoal user, I expected to stop using charcoal.
So, my biggest expectation was that I was going to start cooking without
spending money. So, yeah, that was my biggest expectation.

**Interviewer**: What were you told to expect by the installers?

**Interviewee**: Nothing, that was all. But, personally, I also expected
other people to learn and adopt it. In my heart, I did not think the
digester was mine, but it was for community and for educational
purposes. And, for the second digester from China, the installers said
that if the digesters worked more digesters would be given to people at
a subsidized price.

**Interviewer**: You said that to be a beneficiary one was supposed to
have cow. As an organization or as a person how many cows did you have?

**Interviewee**: Even now, we still have cows, and as matter of fact,
every EPA \[Extension Planning Area\] has cows. That time we had 10
cows.

**Interviewer**: That was a lot.

**Interviewee**: And now we have 14 cows.

**Interviewer**: You talked about training, what kind of training did
you receive?

**Interviewee**: At first, we learned about renewable energy in general.
Then as subtopics, we learned about briquettes, energy efficient stove
making, solar installation and biogas.

**Interviewer**: What did you learn about biogas?

**Interviewee**: Basically, it was about cooking. They told us that when
we use biogas for cooking, we conserve the environment, as it doesn't
need firewood. So, instead of cooking using firewood, cow manure that is
regarded as waste and useless would be used. After that, we proceeded to
install a digester.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so it was more of theory and practical?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it was a bit of both. I mean, after the training,
we installed a solar system at Mlambe School in Nankumba. On top of
that, we also made briquettes from papers. Then, we also did a small
demo on biogas. So, it was both theory and practical.

**Interviewer**: What did you do or learn during biogas practical?

**Interviewer**: We learnt about its installation, for example, how to
assemble the pipes and digester bag, and how to make feedstock.

**Interviewer**: How many people attended the training? And, how long
did the training take?

**Interviewer**: They got 2 EPAs from Nankumba T/A. There was Mbwadzulu
and Nankumba EPA. If I am not mistaken, two agriculture extension
workers from each EPA were taken. Also, one community development
assistant and forest worker from each EPA was taken. The training was
conducted at Nankumba EPA and it was for one week. Our team from
Mbwadzulu was transported to Mbwadzulu by installers. At the end of the
training, we went to the field to install a digester of the
beneficiaries\' house. In addition, we installed a solar panel and made
briquettes. I remember that time trainers brought equipment, which
looked more like a compressor for making of briquettes.

**Interviewer**: So the training was for extension workers and other
stakeholders. Did you have training with the beneficiary? Or, did the
beneficiaries have any type of training?

**Interviewee**: I was the facilitator for beneficiaries training; so, I
was simply telling them what I was told during the training, which was
about feedstock preparation and how to operate it. I was also
responsible for installation of their digesters.

**Interviewer**: So after the training, how prepared to run or operate
the digester did you feel you were?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I felt confident. Of course, the digester did not
work, but I feel we were not the problem. The trainers were a problem
because they failed to make the digester to produce fire. I think there
was a deficiency somewhere. I do feel like the digester was not air
tight enough.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel when the installers came to digester
and failed to produce fire? And, what did the installers say?

**Interviewee**: As for us, we lost hope and thought that the things do
not work. And, it being our vey first digester, it was demoralizing.
But, the installers gave reasons why it didn't work. They said it had
too many connections that were connected by flat rubber strips. So, they
felt that the connections were not airtight enough. The other thing was
that gas was coming to the burners with moist. So, that was making the
gas not to light up with flame.

**Interviewer**: Why did the gas produce moist?

**Interviewee**: When I compared the first and second digester, I
observed that "dew" like things (moist) appeared at the burners. So, I
think moist was making it not to light up. So, maybe the burner or
system itself did not have things to control moist.

**Interviewer**: So the first one failed, and they said they were going
to come back?

**Interviewee**: Yes, they said they were going to come back, and they
did. They said they had come with a new digester that was like big as a
200-liter drum. So, even the design for the hole changed. The hole for
the first digester was more like a drain, while the second one was a
deep hole like dug well -- so they advised us to digging a round 1 meter
hole for it.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to bring the second the digesters?

**Interviewee**: It did not take a year. I think it took about six
months.

**Interviewer**: So, when they brought the second one, you were able to
make it work?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it worked. But, as a user, it didn't really meet
my expectations, because I was not able to use the gas the whole day.
Best-case scenario, I was unable to breakfast and lunch. In the evening,
it did not have gas.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get in the morning and
afternoon?

**Interviewee**: In the morning, I was able to make breakfast for the
kids. At noon, I was able to nsima and side dish of beans without
problems. So it was a matter of preference at times, sometimes we opted
to cook on it in the evening instead at lunch.

**Interviewer**: Why do think you were not able to use it in the
morning, at lunch and in the evening?

**Interviewee**: Of course, after installation, they never came back.
But, if they had come, I wanted to suggest to them that it needed a
storage gas to work the whole day. I think it was not efficient enough
because gas was coming from the digester to the burners directly. I am
also saying this because I could smell gas around the digester, and it
made me think that we were losing gas. So. I think that if we had
storage bags, then we could have managed to conserve the gas.

**Interviewer**: I'm curious to know, the first digest that you tried
and failed, did you install them in the community as well?

**Interviewee**: Yes, they also installed them in the community.

**Interviewer**: Did they work there?

**Interviewee**: No. But after feeding the digester bags, the bags did
get inflated. The only challenge was only that the burners could not
produce fire at the stove.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: As for me, I can say I was using charcoal.

**Interviewer**: In a month, how many bags of charcoal did you use?

**Interviewee**: Two bags of charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the charcoal?

**Interviewee**: I buy from charcoal sellers who move around.

**Interviewer**: How much did a bag cost?

**Interviewee**: That time a bag of 50kg of charcoal was K2000.

**Interviewer**: How much is it now?

**Interviewee**: Now with the way the price of commodities have gone up
it is K5000 or K6000.

**Interviewer**: Okay, you said you use the digester for a certain time,
so during that time, were you still using charcoal?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I was. However, I was using less charcoal then.

**Interviewer**: Like how?

**Interviewee**: I was only using one bag of charcoal a month.
Sometimes, I was using a bag for one month and some days. Therefore, it
was helping especially in the morning as it was faster than charcoal.

**Interviewer**: How do you differentiate cooking on biogas and on
charcoal?

**Interviewee**: The food taste is the same. It is just that it is
faster than charcoal.

**Interviewer**: What was biggest difference change in your life the
time you were using biogas?

**Interviewee**: Cooking with biogas was more like cooking on an
electric stove because it's clean. So, you don't clean pots after
cooking; the pot does get dirty because of soot. In addition, biogas is
fast. Within an hour, you do a lot of cooking. You get fire upon
ignition. You do not wait for the fire to kindle. So, it was time
saving!

**Interviewer**: You said you had 10 cows, so how did you manage your
feedstock or cow manure before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: People were coming to collect and use it in their
farms - There was nothing else besides that.

**Interviewer**: When you say people, which people are you talking
about?

**Interviewee**: The people from the surrounding community were coming
to collect and use it in their farms.

**Interviewer**: Okay, I thought it was only for the stuff....

**Interviewee**: No, it was for everyone.

**Interviewer**: Did you sell your cow manure?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: (laughs) ah, that's not common with government
workers...

**Interviewee:** (laughs) That \[Mbwadzulu\] area is different from
other areas.

**Interviewer**: Why or how?

**Interviewee**: The people there do not consider it as a valuable
thing. They do not know it's "gold" (laughs). So, I don't think people
can buy it there!

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you use to start it up?

**Interviewee**: For the first digester, I don't think I will be
accurate. I think you used five buckets (20 liters) of fresh manure.

**Interviewer**: How much water?

**Interviewer**: I have forgotten the ratio. But, we were just waiting
for the feedstock to get to suitable slurry. So, I think added 2 or 3
buckets of water to one bucket of cow manure.

**Interviewer**: And at the end, it did not work at all?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: What about the second one, how much manure and water
did you use to start it up?

**Interviewee**: For the second one, we used the 10 buckets of cow
manure. To this, we added about 100 liters of water.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: It took three days.

**Interviewer**: Okay, where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We had a borehole close to the office.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning? You mentioned that
you used to cook in the morning and at lunch or in the evening.... How
much cooking time did you get?

**Interviewee**: I think it was 2 hour of cooking time.... In the
morning, we would cook sweet potatoes; boil water for tea -- and
everything else to do with breakfast. At lunch, we would cook nsima,
dish side vegetables or fish. But, if you didn't feed it, you couldn't
cook... And, this one was releasing digestate at one of the pipes
especially in the afternoon. They said the digestate could be used as
fertilizer for crops and vegetables. So, at the outlet we dug a hole for
digestate collection. Thus, after collecting digestate from the hole we
used it at the garden\.... So I can say it worked okay....

**Interviewer**: Were people coming to get the digestate as well?

**Interviewee**: No, people were not coming to get the digestate.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think people were not coming to get it? Was
it not enough?

**Interviewee**: It looked useless, except for people who knew it. It
also looked disgusting and unhygienic to some. It also looked nasty and
it gave a certain smell.

**Interviewer**: Is it wrong to say you failed the people in that
regard? I mean, the digester was for educational purposes and you were
purpose to teach them about the digestate.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) but I tried my best to tell them that it's
fertilizer, it's just that they didn't accept it.

**Interviewer**: How did you use the gas?

**Interviewee**: It was only for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many were you in your family that time?

**Interviewee**: We were five.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: For it to work, it needed to be fed every morning with
fresh manure. If it was not fed, it did not work.

**Interviewer**: Only fresh manure from cattle?

**Interviewee**: During the training, they only told us about fresh cow
manure.

**Interviewer**: Why was it only fresh cow manure?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Mmh, we didn't even ask.

**Interviewer**: So it was fresh cow manure and water, I suppose?

**Interviewee**: Yes!

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Every morning, we used to go to the cow house to
collect fresh cow manure. Then, we would you put the manure in a bucket,
add water and then mix it. After mixing, we were pouring the feedstock
it into the digester bag through a funnel into inlet pipe. Then, the
following day we would also do the same. So with that process, we were
able to cook breakfast and lunch.

**Interviewer**: How often did you feed it?

**Interviewee**: We used to feed it with a 20 kgs of feedstock and 40
liters of water.

**Interviewer**: Was it daily or after two or three days?

**Interviewee**: It was daily!

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: The whole family was responsible for feeding it. If was
not around, they fed it because without feeding it they could get gas
for cooking.

**Interviewer**: Did it ever happen that you failed to get gas because
you didn't feed?

**Interviewee**: Yes, some day they felt lazy to feed it, and it did not
work. This other time, I moved for two days and they did not feed it. I
do not know what made them lazy not to feed it. So, the bag collapsed
completely. So, it took us another 10 buckets of manure to feed it and
start it up, as we did in the beginning. It took 3 days to pick up. But,
yeah, the digester bag was always inflated when it was fed.

**Interviewer**: You said this other time you left, they didn't feed it,
why? Is feed it challenge?

**Interviewer**: Of course, it's hard work. But, when you consider the
benefits, it's worth feeding. So, for someone who is lazy and not
committed it's a very tough job. It also needs someone who doesn't get
easily disgusted because it's not a pleasant thing to handle manure....
So, in general, it's very hard to feed it on a daily basis.

**Interviewer**: Aah, can some feel disgusted with cow manure?

**Interviewee**: Of course, yes. It's not easy for a person who is not
used to cow manure to make feedstock. Fresh cow manure is generally
gross. And, it's better to handle goat manure than cow manure. Also,
when you are handling it you use hands, so it's not pleasant.

**Interviewer**: Oh, yeah. I have heard people used bare hands.

**Interviewee**: Of course, we were using hands. We used to mix with
bare hands.

**Interviewer**: Didn't community health personnel feel that it was not
health? How did you feel?

**Interviewee**: There is always conflict of messages, you know.
Everyone is saying their own thing to advance their agendas. Personally,
I didn't feel gross. I was okay with that. And, I believe the people who
were doing it, had no problem with it, because if they had a problem
with it, they wouldn't have been doing it altogether. Also, they could
have denied the digester in the first place.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: Maintenance in terms of?

**Interviewer**: Keeping it running, solving issues, and preventing
breakages....

**Interviewee**: Ah, the main issue was feeding. Its maintenance hinged
on feeding.

**Interviewer**: Didn't you think that one day it was going to
malfunction? If you did, how were you supposed to handle the issue?

**Interviewee**: I think we didn't discuss that part. I remember, when
we started using it, they came to follow up, and they stopped following
up. But, we did talk on the phone once when a pipe that was carrying gas
from the digester to the stove started leaking. I asked them what I was
supposed to do, but they didn't come. They just told us what to do.
Then, we found a way of tightening the part, which was leaking with a
flat rubber strip.

**Interviewer**: So they didn't tell you where to get spare parts, and
let alone how to solve issues?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't.

**Interviewer**: I mean, if it failed, what would have happened?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, after installation, I just felt like it
could not develop any fault.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how? Why do you think that?

**Interviewee**: After installation, we couldn't think of anything else,
but that it was working... I remember, when the digesters were working a
Cabinet Minister came and visited the beneficiaries to appreciate the
technology.... It's just that our mind was that once you feed a
digester, you don't get any other problems.

**Interviewer**: Oh, a cabinet minister came?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was a big thing!

**Interviewer**: Who was the Minister that time?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten the name. But, I remember that it was
during Peter Muthalika's era.

**Interviewer**: You said it did not meet your needs, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it didn't meet my energy needs.

**Interviewer**: What are your energy needs?

**Interviewee**: To cook in the morning, afternoon, and evening. So,
with this one, I wasn't able to cook in the evening.

**Interviewer**: And you feel like if you had a storage bag, then things
could have worked out?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that's what I think. I mean, I could tell that
the digester was losing gas by the smell that was around the bag too.
And, they even told us that, if we smelled an odd smell, we should know
that the bag was leaking. We checked all the pipes and connection, but
they were all okay.... But, I feel like the bags was coming from
somewhere around the bag.

**Interviewer**: You knew that to meet your energy you needed gas
storage bag. Why didn't you ask for a storage bag? Or why didn't you buy
one?

**Interviewee**: I learned that after it stopped working. A friend of
mine came and told me that he saw a similar digester in Zambia, but it
had a storage bag for storing gas. He went on to say that, people do
sell the gas. And, that's when the idea of a storage bag came. But,
initially I thought that everything was "normal".

**Interviewer**: What challenges did you encounter? You have talked
about as it used to smell and you thought it was leaking gas. So what
other challenges did you face?

**Interviewee**: We also had a problem with the smell of the slurry,
which was coming out at the outlet. It had a bad smell. So, I think the
distance between the digester bag and point of use should have been long
enough. The other challenge was feeding it. It wasn't easy to feed it
with fresh cow manure. I remember my friend who went to Zambia told me
that it's possible to feed it with food waste. But, the installers
didn't tell us that. They only mentioned fresh cow manure. So, it's was
somewhat unhygienic to handle fresh cow manure.

**Interviewer**: Why was the digestate producing smell when it is not
supposed to be like that?

**Interviewee**: I think that as we were feeding it some of the new
feedstock was overflowing, so that's why it was producing smell.

**Interviewer**: How long did the second digester take to stop working?

**Interviewee**: It took about 5 months.

**Interviewer**: How did it stop?

**Interviewee**: Gas production started to decrease with time. After
some time, we could only prepare breakfast and side dish of vegetables.
It could not produce enough gas to cook nsima. And, it was going off as
we were cooking. We noticed this around the same time we found out the
gas was leaking from the pipe. Then, we tighten the part that was
leaking gas and it work for a short time. Then, it eventually stopped.
After it is stopped working, we also stopped feeding it right away
because there was no point of feeding it. Since that time, we never
talked with the installers.

**Interviewer**: So after it failed in 5 months, didn't call the
installers?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't as we were talking with them directly. The
numbers we got were for the district environment officer from the
district council. So, when I called him he was like people from energy
affairs were going to come at some point, but they never came. So, he
was simply relaying information, and he's the one that told us that the
people from energy affairs suggested that we should tie the part, which
was leaking with flat rubber strip. Then, after some time we gave up and
abandoned it when we

**Interviewer**: So you were communicating with the person from the
district assembly, and not the installers?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we were communicating with the person from the
district council. He was like the focal person for the project.

**Interviewer**: So, he was also communicating with other people above
him?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: That was a challenge too.

**Interviewee**: Yeah. I also heard that they installed one in Mangochi.
I don't know if you know if it is still working.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, we followed up on that too before coming here.
It's also not working; it failed some time back too. It's bad! Moving
on, have you seen something like this \[table of intervention\]?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What do you think of the information and do you think
it could have helped in your case?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it would have helped us a lot. The problem is that
we were only relying on the information that was given to us through the
training. And in all honesty and sincerity, it wasn't enough. There was
nothing we learnt regarding maintenance. But, as you can clearly see,
it's important. So, I believe this information, which is touching on
maintenance, would have helped a lot. In addition, when we looked at the
first digester, it was obvious that the accessories could be found in
the local market. But, for the second digester from China, we had no
idea where we could access the accessories. For example, the pipes, I
have not seen one like that on the local market.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you asked them about where you could get the
accessories for the second digester?

**Interviewee**: They told us not to worry because they were in the
process of testing the digesters from China. So, we thought that at some
point everything was going to be made clear.

**Interviewer**: I see. What's the date today?

**Interviewee**: It is 14 August.

**Interviewer**: Okay, How can you describe the state of your digester
on 14^th^ of August 2022?

**Interviewee**: Ah, it's dead.

**Interviewer**: Is there hope that it can be revamped?

**Interviewee**: No, it can't be revamped. I mean after the digester
failed, the rains started. As a result, soil was collapsing into the
digester and the hole itself was covered in water. And, soil in
Mbwadzulu is clay like, so after the place dried up, it buried the
digester bag, as the hole since it was not lined. So that was the end of
it. I think this couldn't have happened if the digester was working. I
mean, it wouldn't have been possible for the bag to get buried when it
was full of air. So, once it got buried that's the end of it!

**Interviewer**: Okay, I remember the time we came to your house, we
tried to locate it but could not see it.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I hired some people to remove it. So, I used the
digester bag to make a roof structure for my pigeon house. As for other
accessories, I returned them to the agriculture office.

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, what caused it to fail?

**Interviewee**: It failed because there was no maintenance plan. For
example, in our case when gas started leaking we could not find a
lasting solution, so we stopped feeding it, and it died.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of our interview. We have
about five or six questions. How do you meet your energy needs now that
it is not working?

**Interviewee**: Now we have reverted to charcoal.

**Interviewer**: And you are still buying from charcoal merchants?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: The government has made amendments to the forest law.
Now, if you are caught in possession of charcoal, you are guilty of
offence and the punishment is 10 years.

**Interviewee**: Oh yeah, I have heard that.

**Interviewer**: Then, how are you going to survive?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was talking with someone about that. I think
that provision is a good, but I feel like the government hasn't offered
people an alternative. Also, I think LPG gas is not publicized enough.
People do not know it. So, they should publicize LPG gas. Still, I don't
think it's enough. If you look at the LPG gas, it is found at Mangochi
Council. So, I don't think it's practical for someone from here let
alone from Monkey Bay to access the gas. And, you can't think of cooking
on electric, it's not just practical.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) why?

**Interviewee**: The power outages are just despicable; they go off for
more than 8 hours every day.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, it's too much.

**Interviewee**: So the government should have made LPG gas available
before enacting that law... Also, my friend from Zambia told me that
it's possible to build a community biogas plant and sell to the
community at a reasonable price. So, I think if they can do that, then
they can start talking about charcoal laws. And, let me go back to
sensitization, my observation is that those who use charcoal are well to
do people. I'm sure if they can publicize LPG gas more people who buy
charcoal can adopt it and find it cheaper too.

**Interviewer**: That's true. How do you manage your feed store now that
it is not working?

**Interviewee**: We just get cow manure out of the cow house, and then
gather it on one place. Then after sometime, we use it as fertilizer in
our farms.

**Interviewer**: Do people still come to get manure from your cow house
for agriculture purposes?

**Interviewee**: Yes, they still do. And we are expecting the demand to
rise, as people will find it tough to get fertilizer because number of
beneficiaries for the AIP \[Agriculture Input Program/Subsidy Program\]
program has drastically reduced.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, it is going to be hard. How much did the reactor
cost?

**Interviewee**: They did not tell us.

**Interviewer**: So you don\'t know?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I don't know.

**Interviewer**: Do you know who funded the project? Is it UNDP?

**Interviewee**: I think the project was funded by UNDP. But, initially
the project was for Ministry of Energy. Then, later UNDP had a project
on climate proofing and took over the project from Ministry of Energy.

**Interviewer**: So the first digester was not UNDP\`s?

**Interviewee**: They didn't mention UNDP. So, I don't know if they were
involved or not.

**Interviewer**: Did you or your organization contribute anything in
kind?

**Interviewee**: I can only think of labor for digging as well as cow
dung and water.

**Interviewer**: How much labor was involved?

**Interviewee**: I hired three people to dig the hole for the digester.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay?

**Interviewee**: I paid them K5000.

**Interviewer**: K5000 for all?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Who dug the hole for the first digester?

**Interviewee**: It was ground laborers from the office, who are
responsible for feeding the cattle.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you have special people who feed the cows?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we do.

**Interviewer**: We have 4 or 5 questions to finish. You said you
digester wasn't lined. Was there any masonry work involved?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: I have talked to some people and have told me they
lined their digesters. Some have told me they told them that they would
line the hole with plaster but on the day of installation, the
installers did not bring cement and all... What happened?

**Interviewee**: There was no provision like that. They didn't tell me
that. They just said it was better to line it the hole with plaster or a
brick wall, and those who had the capacity should do so. But, they said
that we shouldn't worry much about lining it because once the digester
bag get full of air it's hard for water or soil to collapse into the
hole and cover it like I said.

**Interviewer**: Who built it? I mean, how many people from installation
organization came?

**Interviewee**: It this it was 2 people.

**Interviewer**: What special items that had to be important from
another country?

**Interviewee**: When you saw the first digester, you knew they got the
bag from PolyPack \[a plastic manufacture in Malawi\]. But, the second
one didn't look Malawi-like. Also, it didn't look like they got the
accessories from different vendors like the first. It was a set of
accessories from one vendor. And, it was even written on the bag that it
was from China.

**Interviewer**: Can you say the digester saved you money the time it
worked?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it did. But, it could have saved as more money if
it worked all day because I would have cut all the spending on charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Can you go to a shop and buy a digester now, and move
away from using charcoal?

**Interviewee**: I don't know where it is sold. Also, I feel like I
didn't really see its benefit. I think I still need to be convinced.
Also after acquiring one, I would need additional knowledge and skills
on its operation and management. On top of that, I would need the
digester bag to be placed farther away from my house because its
digestate produces odor, which I found a nuisance. But, I think this may
require the pipes to be very long, so it's better to have storage bags
for harvesting gas to be used at the stove. So, for me to buy a
digester, all the things I have outlined need to be addressed. I also
had a debate about the length of the gas pipe. If I'm not mistaken, the
installers mentioned that the pipes shouldn't be longer than 10 meters.
This was a limitation on my part because I felt like the digester bag
needed to be at least 20 meters away. I also feel I was lucky because
cow manure wasn't a problem for me. I was having surplus manure. But,
without cow manure nearby, then it\`s a problem.

**Interviewer**: Okay. Okay, what is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: As a former user, I would say biogas is good. It's
clean and I can't say it has any safety concerns. But, I think it needs
improvements. Most of which I have mentioned, for example, the burners
need to use gas from the storage bags and not direct from the reactor.
This is very important because the slurry that comes out of the reactor
is a nuisance.

**Interviewer**: You have said it's safe. Can you elaborate on that
please?

**Interviewee**: If you look at charcoal, it's easy to get burn after
stepping or being exposed to hot coal. That can't happen with a biogas
stove because its stove is smart. The gas itself is not volatile, so
it's user friendly.

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I think there is a lot to be done especially on
sensitization. Also, I feel like no improvements are being made on
biogas digester. If you look at our digesters, they came with a first
and second one, but both failed. And when you carefully analyze the
digesters, you will see that they had many areas of improvements that
needed to be looked at. So, I think a third digester should have come
and take into account all the failures of the first and second, and see
where we can get. In short, biogas is good but many people don't know
it. I feel like we need to keep on improving the technology, because now
we are not there.

**Interviewer**: How can we sensitize people on biogas?

**Interviewee**: First, we need to build reliable digesters then
distribute them in school, hospital, so that people should see then. And
people have to be told how much money they are saving by using
digesters... But now, many people are not using it, because it has lots
of issues.

**Interviewer**: What improvements would you want to see?

**Interviewee**: It has to work at least 4 hours so that we can use it
in the morning, afternoon and evening. I think this could be done with
storage bags. It has to be durable -- it shouldn't last only five
months. Lastly, they have to make it in a way we can feed it once a
week. The other thing is that the digester bag has to stay at least 20
meters away from the house.

**Interviewer**: Last question. If you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: In regards to energy intervention, I would choose an
intervention that would not need money to use, just like biogas. With
biogas you only use waste, so it\`s very good in that regard because it
saves money.

**Interviewer**: So, you need something like biogas.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, something like biogas. Or, even solar technology
that can be used for cooking. But, I'm not sure about solar panels that
can be used for cooking, because they can cost a lot of money and cannot
be attainable.

**Interviewer**: Any last word in regards biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good. I thank this project because without
this project, I would not have known it. But, now that I have used it, I
would like to see more LPG gas spots available. I would like LPG gas to
be accessible, so that many people can cook without cutting trees.

**Interviewer**: Thanks, for the interview

**Interviewee**: I should be there one thanking you, we have had a good
chat.

**Interviewer**: I have to say the same too. Thanks.
