**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 30**

**Date: September 22, 2022**

**Interviewer:** Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee:** I don't know where it came from because the people who
were coming at first were mostly linking with my father. I remember that
time I was only told to dig the hole. So to answer your question, I
don't really know who it was.

**Interviewer:** But, your father does know?

**Interviewee:** I believe so.

**Interviewer:** When was it built?

**Interviewee:** It's been long, I can't remember.

**Interviewer:** I guess 2017...

**Interviewee:** Yeah, it must be around that time.

**Interviewer:** Who built it?

**Interviewee:** We built it. We was just told dig a hole and we did.
Then, they came with equipment and installed it. So, I can say we did
the rest of the work.

**Interviewer:** How many people came to install it? And, where did they
say they came from? I have come here and told you that I'm from Poly,
Blantyre. Where did they say they came from?

**Interviewee:** I just remember that they came here for biogas. I don't
remember about the name of the project or anything like that.

**Interviewer:** Okay, how long did it take you build?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot of work that time because the ground was
very compact. It took us one week, if not two weeks. They told us to dig
a hole of 1 meter deep.

**Interviewer**: For most people it took them a day or two to digging
the hole... Why did it take you so long?

**Interviewee**: After they came the first time, they told us that the
hole was not big enough. So, we had to dig again.

**Interviewer**: You have said the hole was one meter deep. How big were
the other sides?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember, but that was its depth. So, maybe its
diameter was 1.5 meters or 2 meters.

**Interviewer**: What was your role?

**Interviewee**: Our first role was to dig the hole for the digester
bag. After that, they came with the equipment, for example, a stove,
pipes and the digester bag, they told us how to make feedstock, and we
made feedstock to start up the digester. It was not easy to make the
feedstock. It was hard work. After feeding the digester bag, it got
inflated. The bag inflated more especially when there was the sun.

**Interviewer**: How many people came to install it?

**Interviewee**: They came 3 times; the first time three people came.
The second time one person came. And, the last time they came in cars to
start up all the digesters that were installed in this area.

**Interviewer**: Okay, in this village, we have more than 300
households, how were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: It's because we are hard worker. I mean, it's not easy
to manage it. It needs hardworking people, and most people out of the
300 couldn't have manage it.

**Interviewer**: Are you not boasting about yourselves?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we are hard workers. When projects come, they go
through the chiefs, so chiefs know which people are hard working and
reliable in the village.

**Interviewer**: So, you are sure that chiefs know which people are
reliable and hardworking within the community?

**Interviewee**: Chiefs know the behavior of every person in a
community. They are more like teachers at school; they know the strength
and weaknesses of every student. So, chiefs know people who don't take
part in community development projects. They also know which people are
active in the community, so when community development projects come
active and hard working people are chosen.

**Interviewer**: Which part are you active? Which area can you say sets
you apart from the rest?

**Interviewee**: It's just that some people dodge community projects but
we are always there, and the chief knows. That's why he always chooses
us to take part in every project and it motivates us that they recognize
us.

**Interviewer**: Apart from the biogas project, which project were you
involved in or are you involved?

**Interviewee**: An NGO called DAPP came and they gave us goats. Another
NGO too came, they gave us goats too, and it's the goats in those goat
houses.

**Interviewer**: What are the goat projects about?

**Interviewee**: For example, DAPP came to give us 5 goats, 4 female and
one male. They said after conceiving we should give the goats to other
people, so that at the end of the project many people should have goats
to support their livelihood. But, the ones in that goat house were
strictly given to us.

**Interviewer**: You have said you have seen people shunning from
projects, which you were part of, can you give me an example of that
project?

**Interviewee**: It's not that people always run away from community
projects, but a few people usually dodge projects that do not benefit
them directly. So once they see that the project benefits the community
as a whole they work without commitment or they even manage to run away
from the project.

**Interviewer**: so I want to see one project, which some people
shunned, but you didn't.

**Interviewee**: I remember one time there was a project concerning
construction of pit latrines at our health center. The chiefs were asked
to mobilize people to make bricks. Many people refused to take part in
the project saying it was too much work and that the brick were made at
a very far distance. But, my father, two-step brothers and I were going
there the whole time to make bricks.

**Interviewer**: Did you know biogas before?

**Interviewee**: As for me, I learned about it from the books. But, this
was my first time.

**Interviewer**: Which books? And, what did you learn about biogas?

**Interviewee**: I learned it from school that it's a cooking
technology. We also learned about its props and cons. So we know its
importance and drawbacks.... Yeah!

**Interviewer**: What are its props and cons?

**Interviewee**: It has many props and cons. But, I can only say what I
saw and not what I heard because I didn't really comprehend it from
books. The first drawback is that when you feed it, for example, with 5
buckets of feedstock \[start up feedstock\], it takes time produce gas
or it doesn't even produce gas at all. The other thing is that it's
somewhat not safe for kids, for example, one time the digestate spilled
over a little child.

**Interviewer**: How is that possible?

**Interviewee**: When you feed the digester bag with feedstock the bad
inflates. Sometimes the bag inflates excessively especially on sunny
days and it releases digestate at the outlet. Sometimes, it comes out
with force like an explosion. I remember one time it spilled over a
child who was playing around it to the extent that we took the child to
the hospital.

**Interviewer**: Oh, did it really happen? Or, you are just trying to
make up a story?

**Interviewee**: No, it's happened.

**Interviewer**: So you went to the hospital?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we did. So, after that we realized that it was
not safe for kids to play around it.

**Interviewer**: What was the kid doing there?

**Interviewee**: You know kids; he was just attracted to it after maybe
seeing us also there. And, he took part in gathering the start up feed
because we required a lot of it labor, and we had to ask from other
people. So, everyone was involved and he wasn't a stranger to it.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what are its props?

**Interviewee**: It helped us in cooking, as we didn't need to source
firewood and charcoal. And it was very useful in the morning because it
was easy to ignite and cook on.

**Interviewer**: What was the selection process?

**Interviewee**: As far as I'm concerned, it was about hard work. But, I
don't know how the whole selection process went down. The chiefs know
though.

**Interviewer**: What was your role in the selection process? Did you
participate in the selection process?

**Interviewee**: When the digesters came, we asked what the use of
digesters was.

**Interviewer**: Who did you ask?

**Interviewee**: We asked the chiefs because they were the ones that
selected the beneficiaries.

**Interviewer:** Where did you ask them?

**Interviewee**: At a community meeting.

**Interviewer**: So the chiefs selected the beneficiaries at a community
meeting, and you participated the meeting. But, you don't know how
exactly they chose you, so you thing you were chosen because you are
hard workers?

**Interviewee**: Right. So we asked them what biogas is, and they said
it's used for cooking.

**Interviewer**: Then you accepted it to come here?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, because it was hard to find firewood. The other
thing is that we were lacking money to buy charcoal. Charcoal is very
expensive. Also, we accepted it because there are no extra costs once
it's installed unlike electricity.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what to were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected to use it for a long time. Unfortunately,
it stopped working on its own after a short time, so we just abandon it.

**Interviewer**: Why did you think that you would use it for a long
time?

**Interviewee**: It was because we were solely responsible for its gas
producing. It was different from electricity, which depends on Escom. So
we thought that after feeding it we would be getting gas all the time.
And indeed, every time we fed the digester bag it was getting full
because of gas. And, when there was no gas in the bag was deflating.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you told to expect from the digester by
the installers?

**Interviewee**: We didn't know what biogas is, so when they came they
explained what it is. They mentioned that it could be use for cooking
instead of firewood. And, that's why we were excited about it, and
that's why we committed ourselves to do the work to the point it was
installed there.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive from the
installers?

**Interviewee**: We just told us to take good care of it.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean? I mean, they didn't just say this is
the digester, please take good care of it. I mean, that can only take
less than a minute, so I would like to know what did they tell you
exactly?

**Interviewee**: First, they showed us the parts of the digester and
told us their names and functions. Secondly, they showed us gas valves,
which need to be open to get gas. They said when we opened the valves we
were going to hear a certain sound from the digester bag which signals
presence of gas in the reactor. Then, they showed us where to press to
get gas on the burners. After that, they asked us to do what we were
told, and it worked. So that's how we knew its operation.

**Interviewer**: Okay, nice. How prepared to run or operate did you feel
were?

**Interviewee**: After that, we felt very confident that we could run
it. Besides that, the installers told us that they would be coming
regularly to see if we were doing things correctly. And indeed, we were
able to operate it. I remember one time they came after a week or so,
and they found us cooking and they said that we were doing things
accordingly.

**Interviewer**: What were you cooking?

**Interviewer**: Vegetables.

**Interviewer**: How many times did they come after installation?

**Interviewee**: I think it was once.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention? Was it just firewood?

**Interviewee**: We only use the firewood that we sourced from the
mountains. In a month, we were probably going there 2 or 3 times. So
every Saturday neighbors gather around and start to source firewood.

**Interviewer**: So, it's a group of people that go there? You don't go
as individuals?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, a group of women goes there on Saturdays.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: I don't know why

**Interviewer**: Like these things started way back?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what about charcoal?

**Interviewee**: We use charcoal when things are going well for us.
Thus, we use charcoal when we have money. But in most cases, we usually
use firewood.

**Interviewer**: Which period of the year do things go well for you? Is
it after harvesting or it's just random?

**Interviewee**: It's not like there are certain periods of the year
that we have plenty of money. So. We buy charcoal when the need for
other necessities like school fees is not there. And, it's not like the
firewood stays long, so they try as much as possible to gather enough
wood. Right now, we don't have firewood, but we can't buy because there
no money. So, we will wait until Saturday for them to get firewood.

**Interviewer**: Who collects wood in this house?

**Interviewee**: My four little sisters.

**Interviewer**: And everyone goes there 2 or 3 times a month to get
bundles of wood?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's far so they get small bundles, and that's
why we run out of wood sometimes.

**Interviewer**: What happens when you run out of firewood while there's
no money around as it is now?

**Interviewee**: We just look for small dry branches of trees around or
use dry vegetation.

**Interviewer**: You said sometimes you buy charcoal, how often do you
buy charcoal and how much do you use?

**Interviewee**: One bag of charcoal stays for 2 or 3 months because
it's only supplementary. But, charcoal is expensive these days. I don't
know if its price has gone up because price other things have gone up as
well.

**Interviewer**: How much is bag now?

**Interviewee**: It was K2500. Now, it's K3000. But, that's a small bag
and not the standard 50 kg bag you know. But, like I said, we only buy
charcoal when we are too desperate.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: There was nothing we were doing with it.

**Interviewer**: You don't use it in your farms or even sell to others?

**Interviewee**: I have never heard or seen a person buying manure here.
No.

**Interviewer**: Why? People have a lot of cattle?

**Interviewee**: There is plenty of cattle here. It's too many! But, of
course, other people do take manure to their farms to enrich the soil.

**Interviewer**: You are saying other people meaning that you don't do
that?

**Interviewee**: When it floods here, the riverbanks become fertile.
And, this happens every year as rivers from the other part of Malawi
carry fertile soil here. So, we don't apply manure. And, if we can do
so, we would kill the maize due to excess nutrients.

**Interviewer**: So, it's not like you grow you crops around this
community. But you grow you crops near the river?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, no one plants within the village. We plant maize
at the riverbanks.

**Interviewer**: So, who are these "others" who take manure to their
farms?

**Interviewee**: Some people who have farms farther away from the
riverbanks do use manure when the floods were not severe the previous
year. But, it's very rare.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you start it up with?

**Interviewee**: The work we did on the first day was very intense. I
think we used 10 to 20 buckets of cow manure, as the digester bag was a
big one. To this, we added water to make suitable slurry, so a lot of
water and manure went in there.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you use?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot of water, but I can't know the exact
amount because we were directly adding water to the manure from the
source without counting. But, it was a lot of water because we did the
work from morning to 4 or 5 PM.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We got it from a borehole.

**Interviewer**: Where is the borehole?

**Interviewee**: It's close to that school there.

**Interviewer**: That's like 700 meter from here. Not close.

**Interviewee**: Yes, but we were lucky that time because the entire
four boreholes that preceded that one were so far away. That one was
only some months old that time.

**Interviewer**: After feeding it, how long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: It didn't take long to start up. I think it didn't take
more than a week. It took 2 to 5 days, I think. And, the installers told
us to wait for this time, so that they could come and commissioning it.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so on the day of commissioning, the installers
came?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they came.

**Interviewer**: How many people came?

**Interviewee**: They came in a car; I think they were 3 or 4 people.

**Interviewer**: ... And they were like let's start it. So, how did it
work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: It worked, but it didn't stay long. Then, the
installers were like wait for some hours it will work.

**Interviewer**: So that time you saw fire on it, but it wasn't strong?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, when we started it up again, it worked, but it
went off while we were cooking.

**Interviewer**: What did you cook?

**Interviewee**: We were cooking beans when it went off.

**Interviewer**: So the problems started on the first day?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: So, from the first day you couldn't use it in the
morning, at lunch and at night?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time were you getting in a day?

**Interviewee**: In the first days, we were not getting more than one
hour, and the fire itself wasn't strong.

**Interviewer**: How was the fire like in that one hour?

**Interviewee**: It was like when we put the digester on volume 8, after
a short time the fire was like it was on volume 3, then it would go off
-- The fire was going off gradually. It wasn't lasting 20 minutes.

**Interviewer**: How did you use the gas?

**Interviewee**: It was only for cooking

**Interviewer:** How many people used the gas?

**Interviewee**: 12 people. My father has 2 wives, so we are many.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee:** We were required to feed it with cow manure; without
cow manure, it couldn't work. Also, we were supposed to feed it
repeatedly with 2 or 3 buckets cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How often did you feed it?

**Interviewee**: We were feeding it 2 or 3 times a week, sometimes once
a week, and with that we could use it the whole week.

**Interviewer**: Okay, in a week you were feeding it twice or thrice,
and sometimes even once. So in one feed, how much manure did you use?

**Interviewee**: Maybe 2 buckets.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add?

**Interviewee**: We used to add 2 buckets of water as well. After that,
we used to mix the feedstock.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare it?

**Interviewee**: We used to wear a plastic bag to separate somewhat dry
manure from fresh manure, and put the manure in a bucket. Then, we would
add water and mix it with hands whilst putting on a plastic bag.

**Interviewer**: So you were wearing plastic bags as protective gloves?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Who told you to do that? Or, you just thought it wise
to use plastic bags?

**Interviewee**: We had no gloves so they told us to use the plastic
bags instead of gloves to stay hygienic.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you soak the manure in a bucket and use it
the next day to prepare your feedstock, or you mixed your manure on the
spot?

**Interviewee**: We were not soaking it. But, sometimes we ran out of
manure, so we would go ask for 3 buckets from others before the night.
Then, we would keep the manure in buckets until the next day. So the
next day we would go collect water, add to the manure, and then feed the
digester.

**Interviewer**: How did people respond when you went to ask you for
manure?

**Interviewee**: It was okay because people knew we had a digester, so
they weren't tough on us. Also, we got it easily because we are farmers,
and farmers generally share such things.

**Interviewer**: How far was it from here to where you were getting
manure?

**Interviewee**: It was some distance because that time it was only us
living on this upper side of the village. Back then, people were staying
on the lower side of the village. So, it's can be easy to feed it this
time.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: We used to share the task. My father, brother and I
used to collect manure and prepare the feedstock. My little sisters were
responsible for collecting water.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the task of feeding it? To some,
it's nothing but to some it's hard work that they even deny a biogas
digester. What's your take?

**Interviewee**: It was simple for us because we shared the tasks, and
it involved a lot of people too.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage the feedstock, for example, how did
you take out the trash?

**Interviewee**: When you get cow manure from the cow house, you don\'t
really see the trash. But when you start mixing it that's when you see
the trash. So, we used to remove it, so that we could have it without
trash.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: Just to have good feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Were you told to do so?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: It was about taking good care of it.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: It needed to be fed to work, and the manure was
supposed to be trash free.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you supposed to do when it
malfunctioned?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I remember that when it malfunctioned the
installers told us to keep the equipment safe, so they should find the
equipment intact.

**Interviewer**: During the time it worked, did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: No, and we only used it for a very short time. Even now
we feel bad about the whole thing and we wonder if we are going to use
it again someday... We didn't get impressed or satisfied!

**Interviewer**: How long did you use it?

**Interviewee**: It did not work for more than a year. We dissembled it
after it stopped working as they told us to dissemble it whenever the
problem of a nature that we could not fix. So, we have things like the
pipes and stove are in the house.

**Interviewer**: Specifically, how long did it work before it stopped
working? I mean, how long did it take from the moment it was
commissioned to the point where you stopped using it?

**Interviewee**: It's two weeks from the day we started using it. It
didn't take long.

**Interviewer**: So after 2 weeks, you stopped feeding it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, after 2 weeks when we tried to feed it, nothing
was happening, so we just abandoned it.

**Interviewer**: What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The only challenge was that it was not producing
adequate fire.

**Interviewer**: So, in those 2 week's you were still using firewood?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it wasn't working, so we kept doing what we do
best, cooking on firewood.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) okay, so after 2 weeks, you stopped
everything?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. We were very disappointed. So, we returned to
firewood up to now.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to fix it after those 2 weeks?

**Interviewee**: We were only feeding it, then trying to see if it would
produce gas. Of course, when we fed it the digester bag was inflating,
but it couldn't produce fire. Then, we thought if we kept feeding it, we
would make the problem worse.

**Interviewer**: How many times did you feed it?

**Interviewee**: It was three times. And, every time we fed it,
digestate was coming out, but no flame was coming out. Then, we thought
that maybe the feedstock was not enough, so we fed it 2 more times. But,
nothing happened so we stopped feeding it.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to call the project implementers?

**Interviewee**: I do not know if they were called, but I know that the
chief was told. So they told us to keep the equipment safe because the
things weren't technically ours.

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this \[sheet of
intervention\]? What do you think of this Information? And do you think
it could have helped in your case?

**Interviewee**: It could have I helped a lot and I'm sure today you
could have found it working.

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: We would have been going through the information and
act accordingly. In our case, we had a problem but didn't exactly know
what the problem was, so we couldn't do anything.

**Interviewer**: someone would say to fix something you don\'t just need
information but you also need equipment. For example, you may know that
a car engine is broken, but to fix it you need to get spare parts or a
new engine. Do you think you could have managed to get the things you
saw on the digester if they had issues?

**Interviewee**: The digester was a simple thing as it had limited
number of accessories, so I think its equipment would have been easy to
find. Thus, we only needed information to keep it running; we just
wanted to know what to do when there was a problem; we did not need
spanners and all that.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how would you describe the current state of your
digester today?

**Interviewee**: It's dead because it's not working. It's like a
seriously broken car, when you have one, you don't say I have a car. As
it stands, we don't have a digester. We only have firewood as a source
of energy for cooking now.

**Interviewer**: But, you still have some of the equipment?

**Interviewee**: We have all the equipment, but we don't have biogas; we
have pipes, the stove and the bag.

**Interviewer**: Do you think with the equipment you have it can work
again?

**Interviewee**: I believe it can be revamped, but things have to
change. I feel if the digester is revamped and then things happen as the
last time, I see it eventually failing again. So, if they could do
things differently, then things would work better than last time.

**Interviewer**: What needs to happen differently? Or, what need to
change?

**Interviewee**: The implementers need to analyze what went wrong and
then make proper changes in terms of its design; they need to use things
that can work and last long.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: The thing lasted barely two weeks, so maybe the things
were not original.

**Interviewer**: How did it reach this state, and in your opinion what
caused it to fail?

**Interviewee**: I can't say it failed because we did something wrong.
If you saw how hard we worked, you can even agree that we did put in
effort. Even our neighbors can bear witness to that. Maybe it failed
because it just wasn\`t meant to be. But, on our part, we did everything
as instructed by the implementers.

**Interviewer**: You saw everything, so there must be something that
caused it to fail. In your opinion, what is it?

**Interviewee**: I have no idea. They told us to feed it and we did feed
it as instructed, so I don't know how and why it failed. Even now, I
still try to figure why it failed, but I don't find the answer. Maybe if
the installer could come and analyze what went wrong, then we would
know. And if they could come today and say this is what went wrong,
let's work together and make it work, I would work with them as the
first time.

**Interviewer**: Don't you think the fact that they didn't come again is
a sign of failure on their part?

**Interviewee**: In my view, I thought the project phased out. I think
the project ended after installation of the digesters. But, I don't feel
the installers are failures. I'm saying this because I feel like when
they brought this they knew how this thing works.

**Interviewer**: But, it never worked to say they did a good job?

**Interviewee**: It never worked it. We feel saddened that we lost a lot
of energy. Imagine digging that big hole; imagine feeding that big bag
with manure. We dug the hole, but they kept on saying we should keep on
digging because it wasn't enough until they said it was enough. It hurts
me that we did a hard job only to use it for a short time!

**Interviewer**: (laughs) that's not on! Now that it's not working, how
do you manage your feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Some we take to the farm, some we burn on that spot
where there ash \[points to stack of ash\] and make sure that the smoke
goes to the animal house to kill ticks and parasites on the animals.

**Interviewer**: Does it work?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, 100%. The ticks can just stand the smoke.

**Interviewer**: Okay, we are moving towards the end of the interview.
How much did it cost?

**Interviewee**: On our part or their part?

**Interviewer**: Both.

**Interviewee**: Maybe them, but for us we didn't use any money.
Everything was paid for us.

**Interviewer**: Who paid for you?

**Interviewee**: I think it is an NGO that paid for us.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: Because I have seen you. But, that time I didn\`t know
it was the government or an NGO.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: If it were government, then you would have come with
other government workers from this area.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: You didn't use bricks to line it with a brick wall or
something?

**Interviewee**: We lined the edge of the hole with a brick wall, so to
protect it and make it noticeable to people. We lined it also to keep it
in shape and straight, because it going out of shape when it was full.

**Interviewer**: How many bricks did you use?

**Interviewee**: We lined it with a 2-layer wall. We only used 40
bricks.

**Interviewer**: Who lined it?

**Interviewee**: My father is a builder, so he did the work.

**Interviewer**: Did you buy the bricks?

**Interviewee**: No, someone gave us for free.

**Interviewer**: How much cement did you use?

**Interviewee**: We didn't use cement; we used mud.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what special items had to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee**: No, everything can be found here.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: (laugh) maybe it's not from Malawi, because when you
look at the equipment it looks durable and expensive. Also, if it was
from Malawi, the installers would have come to fix it or change the
equipment when it didn't work.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good when it's working. But, when you look at
how it worked here, you have to say it's not good.... The way things
panned out here, it makes it seem awful because we didn't use it long.
Also, like I said, I became aware of biogas at school, so I expected to
learn more from this, but I learned nothing from this. I expected to
learn more about it, but I was disappointed to learn nothing.

**Interviewer**: Which school did you learn about biogas?

**Interviewee**: I learn it when I was in grade 7 and in secondary.

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: Maybe in other areas people are using biogas, but here
it's a failure. I don't know why it failed here though. It will start
getting bright if people would start using it for longer periods. Here
you can't say there was or there is biogas, we tried it and failed. When
we got it, people wished it was them as they expected to use it as a
replacement for firewood. But, now I don't think people would have the
desire to own one just because they didn't see anything good when we got
it.

**Interviewer**: Last one. If you could have designed your own waste or
energy intervention, what could you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I can only think of electricity.

**Interviewer**: Why electricity?

**Interviewee**: It has fewer problems and its problems can be solved.
Biogas was just a waste of time; we wasted time in digging holes and we
got nothing from it. I'm sure if it was electricity we would have been
using it today.

**Interviewer**: Electricity needs money. To use it for cooking you will
need an electric stove. Can you manage it?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we can manage.

**Interviewer**: In closing, do you have anything to say?

**Interviewee**: If it's coming back, then the installers need to change
the technology. Or, if it's the same, then they need to train us on its
maintenance, so that we can do some of the things on our own. This one
here failed because we didn't have the expertise. So, when it
malfunctioned we were clueless and helpless.

**Interviewer**: Okay. thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
