**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 32**

**Date: September 22, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: At that time, we were only told that the digesters came
through Minister of Agriculture. And, indeed, the installers used to
come with people from the agriculture office. I recall it came with
\[name redacted\] from the agriculture office. Now she is not staying
here. She is in TA Ching'ani. She used to work at Tengani EPA.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee:** It was built by a contractor who was told what to do,
just like we were. Before the contractor came, we were told to dig the
hole, and when he came, he assembled the digester and we did it
together. Then, he told us also how to make feedstock of cow manure and
water. But, after we completed everything and started the digester work,
it didn\'t work. I think it was because the feedstock contained too much
water. Of course, the installer told us that after some days, the
digester was going to inflate and it did. But, it was not producing gas
for long. If it did, it was only for a few days. I mean you could switch
it on and only burn for 2 or 3 minutes then go off.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: The contractor was one but he came with a group of
people. I think they came five or six people. I had a paper where they
wrote their names and everything, but I lost the paper as I was
renovating my house. My wife did not take care of it. All I can remember
is that the installation company came as a team, and they were the same
people who installed the digesters at Mtolongo.

**Interviewer**: How many people from your side participated in the
building process?

**Interviewee**: I did the work by myself.

**Interviewer**: So, you dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: I dug the hole by myself. They only told me the
dimensions of the hole.

**Interviewer**: What were the dimensions?

**Interviewee**: I can only remember that it was 1 meter something deep.
Ask for the diameter, I\'m not sure, but it was kind of round, maybe 2
meters. They told us that some part containing the manure would be in
the hole, while some part would be out of the hole.

**Interviewer**: You have told me that during the construction process
you were also involved in collection and making of feedstock. How much
manure and water did you collect?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we did mix cow manure and water to make the
feedstock. I did collect 20 buckets (of 20 liters) of manure.

**Interviewer**: Water?

**Interviewee**: It was the same; 20 buckets (20 liters) buckets.

**Interviewer**: When was it built? And, how long did it take to build?

**Interviewee**: It did not take long. They assembled it in a day.
Before that, they came to tell us the dimensions of the holes, and that
they would come back again. So, when we dug the hole they came with the
equipment on the day which they promised.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to dig the hole?

**Interviewee**: It took me two days.

**Interviewer**: What was your role apart from what you have said?

**Interviewee**: That was it - digging the hole, collecting manure and
water, and making the feedstock.

**Interviewer**: In this village, we have many people, so how were you
selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: People were chosen based on handwork. Also,
beneficiaries were supposed to have a cow house. Or, the person was
supposed to be staying close to someone's cow house for easy access of
manure.

**Interviewer**: So everyone who was chosen had cows or he had cows
within?

**Interviewee**: Everyone who was chosen had a cow house within the
house. However, one had cows but his cow house was far from his house.
Therefore, it was tough for him to get manure from his cow house, so he
was asking from the people around. But, for everyone else it wasn't too
difficulty source manure, except for the first day when we started up
the digesters. On that day, people went about asking for cow manure from
other people because a lot of manure was required at once.

**Interviewer**: Did you buy or get it free?

**Interviewee**: I just asked and they gave me free because people saw
that it as community thing.

**Interviewer**: You are saying people who had cows, and are hard
working were chosen. How did they know that you are a hard working?

**Interviewee**: In a community setting like this, people know each
other very well. So, people knew that if I got a digester, I would
manage it. That is evident by finding it today where it was installed;
if it was given to someone you could not have found it where was
installed.

**Interviewer**: So you know each other?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we know that if they give this one something, it
will only be on paper that he has it, but on ground it will useless and
not well taken off.

**Interviewer**: Did you know anything about biogas as before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't know anything about biogas. I knew of
biogas when they came with the digesters.

**Interviewer**: What was the selection process?

**Interviewee**: "Nomination?" it happened through chiefs and other
community leaders, as a small number of people was required. I think it
was only 5 people who were supposed to benefit. So, they thought it was
wise to call for a community meeting for transparency. But, it never
happened because they thought it was going to create tension since
biogas was a new thing and everyone would have wanted it. As a result,
the chiefs and community committees congregated and chose the
beneficiaries based on the factors I mentioned. After that, they
informed the people that a new intervention for cooking was coming to
the village.

**Interviewer**: How did they inform the people?

**Interviewee**: Through a community meeting at group \[village\] level.

**Interviewer**: So, everyone was there when they were announcing the
beneficiaries?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, everyone was there. And, if you can show anyone a
digester, and ask who benefited from the intervention they would tell
you who the beneficiaries were -- "They will tell you Mkuzi, Faifi, Sewe
and Samuel were beneficiaries"

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Nice. So you were just told at the community
meeting that the community committee and chief selected you as a
beneficiary of biogas? Or, did you participate in the selection process
at some point?

**Interviewee**: No, I was just told at the community meeting that I was
a beneficiary for the biogas intervention.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you say no? I mean, why did you accept to
build it here?

**Interviewee**: First, it is because I am a farmer, and I did not want
to waste wood.

**Interviewer**: What is the connection of a farmer and wood?

**Interviewee**: There is a connection; we use wood mostly for cooking
instead of using it for agriculture activities, for example, building of
cow house. So, we saw this as an opportunity of saving wood for the
construction animals Also, as a farmer, I know cutting down of trees
affect rainfall through climate change. So, I did not like the use of
firewood cooking because it has negative consequences on agriculture.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you expectations?

**Interviewee**: I expected to use biogas "continuously" for cooking,
yeah!

**Interviewer**: What do you mean "continuously"?

**Interviewee**: I expected to use it on a daily basis.

**Interviewer**: But you are also able to cook with firewood on daily
basis, aren't you?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I do. However, if this had worked, I would have
stopped using firewood.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: I do not like using firewood these days because it is
very hard for our women to find firewood these days. Therefore, women do
struggle and are struggling. It is a burden to women. So, these days
most people in this village prefer charcoal because it gives women
freedom as we only buy from merchants around the community. But, it
needs money so you cannot rely on it. Therefore, when we don\`t have
money we simply use maize cobs.

**Interviewer**: What did the installers tell you to expect from this?

**Interviewee**: They said upon completion, we would be using it for
cooking like an electric stove. On top of that, they said biogas is one
way of conserving the environment. That was all.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive from the
installers?

**Interviewee**: No, we did not.

**Interviewer**: How is that possible? I mean, how would you even be
able to switch it on and off?

**Interviewee**: Everything that was done was on the spot. They were
like this is how we dig a hole; this is how we connect to the pipes;
this is how we mix cow manure and water to make feedstock; then they
said we should find a funnel for transferring feedstock into the
digester through the inlet. In regards to starting flame, they said once
we see that the bag is full, we could turn on the stove by using
matchstick to light of the gas. So, it was not as if we sat down to talk
about how it works and all that.

**Interviewer**: So after that how prepared to run or operate did you
feel you were?

**Interviewee**: After that, we felt confident that we would run and
operate it. But, after problems started, we realized there was nothing
we knew to remedy the problem. We were helpless. So once we had a
problem that time, we just abandon it.

**Interviewer**: Why were you helpless?

**Interviewee**: We were hopeless because after installation we never
saw their faces again. If I saw them again, it was last year, if not the
year before, when people from "MERA" came to follow up. So, I told them
that for some of us we only used it for few days because we lack
expertise to rejuvenate it. Then, we told them other problems too, one
of which was they gave us the digesters without training. For them to
bring it here, it means they received training on installation and its
operate somewhere, so in the same way they should have trained us to
know what to do in case of a break downs.

**Interviewer**: What did MERA say?

**Interviewee**: They said the contractor was at fault. First, the
contractor did not install the digesters properly. Secondly, they
faulted the contractor for not giving us training. Thirdly, they said
the hole was supposed to be lined with a brick wall around especially at
the top surface. They also said the contractor was supposed to make a
digestate collection point at the outlet that we could use it as a
source of fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: I supposed you were told to dig a hole that time for
collection for digestate?

**Interviewee**: Yes, they told us.

**Interviewer**: Did you dig the hole?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we did. We dug it there

**Interviewer**: So those were the key issues that were supposed to be
done. Okay, did you use the digestate?

**Interviewee**: No, we do not usually use fertilizer here.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: It is tradition and that's what we were taught by our
ancestors. Of course, sometimes people do apply manure for vegetables
only though. We usually depend on the fertile soil that gets flooded
here. So, our soil is fertile.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's great. So, you grow maize without
fertilizer.

**Interviewee**: The maize you are seeing here grew without fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: It doesn't show any deficiencies?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's always healthy. It is always "Green"

**Interviewer**: You had the right to say no. Why did you accept to
build it here?

**Interviewee**: They discussed it in a way I thought I was going to
benefit. First, I thought I going to stop using firewood for cooking.
Secondly, my wife would have stopped going to the mountains to get
firewood, and thirdly, I thought I would stop damaging the environment.

**Interviewer**: I'm seeing a lot of trees around, why don\`t you use
that for cooking?

**Interviewee**: I do cut and use the trees.

**Interviewer**: Then, why do you go to the mountains to source
firewood?

**Interviewee**: I do use the trees economically. First, I use them for
building and rehabilitating my cow house, and that is where most of my
trees go. Secondly, I use it for brick clamp making. We use it because
it is natural trees so it works well for brick making. Also, you cannot
go to the mountains to get wood for that because you would be
arrested\... Eh, natural trees are rarely the days so when you have them
like this it's desirable.

**Interviewer**: I know it didn't work for long, but before it came how
did you meet your energy needs?

**Interviewee**: I was using firewood for cooking

**Interviewer**: And charcoal?

**Interviewee**: It's only recent that we started using charcoal. All
along, we were using firewood

**Interviewer**: Okay, what has changed? What has made you move to
charcoal too?

**Interviewee**: It is because of distance. It is far

**Interviewer**: Oh, you didn't feel that it was far in the past?

**Interviewee**: It's even farther away from where we used to get wood.

**Interviewer**: Meaning that you have exhausted all the trees from
where you used to get them?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we have exhausted it.

**Interviewer**: And now you go to another place?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, in the past the place we got wood was
uninhabited; now the owners have taken down the trees, and build houses
and fields. In the past, we could go there, ask for wood and get it.
But, now the people cannot give you the wood.

**Interviewer**: So people have settled where you used to get firewood?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer:** How much charcoal do you use?

**Interviewee:** I use a bag of charcoal**.**

**Interviewer**: How much is a bag of charcoal?

**Interviewee:** It is K2500

**Interviewer:** How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: I was doing nothing with it. But, in sweet potato
season, I was using it to prepare sweet potato.

**Interviewer**: Oh?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but when we are approaching rainy season we take
it out, so that when rain comes it does not create mud in the cow house.

**Interviewer**: I have always wondered to see people cook cooking sweet
potatoes on ash like things; it must be the manure, I guess! Why do you
cook on cow manure? How do you do it?

**Interviewee**: First, you take out very dry manure from the cow house.
Then, you gather grass and put the manure on top of the then light it up
fire. So, when the fire ignites you bury the sweet potato in the fire.

**Interviewer**: Why do you do that? Does it make sweet potato taste
better?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it tastes better.

**Interviewer**: I should try it one day... Don't people feel
disgusting?

**Interviewee**: It's quite okay. You can also wash it, so it's okay. In
addition, a lot of heat is involved so it's okay.

**Interviewer**: How much manure did you start it up with? You said 20
buckets of cow manure right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was 20 buckets (20L buckets), or a little more
than that. I think it was 25 buckets.

**Interviewer**: Okay, water?

**Interviewee**: It was 20 buckets. Water was a little less because
there manure was fresh, so it was watery kind of.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten how many days it took.

**Interviewer**: Maybe a month or two?

**Interviewee**: It didn't reach two months. Maybe, it was a month, if
not less.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning? How much cooking
time did you get?

**Interviewee**: After we fed it, they told us that they were going to
come with a pipe to connect from the bag to the stove. So after some
days they came with pipes and the stove, and they installed it. Then,
after they went, we tried to use it and it worked but unconvincingly!

**Interviewer**: On the day they commissioned it, did you see flame?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we did.

**Interviewer**: Did you use it for cooking?

**Interviewee**: I cooked on it this other day. I boiled water to make
tea. But, as I was cooking nsima, if not dish side, it went off. Still,
I have to say I liked the food, which I cooked on. It tasted good.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) Oh

**Interviewee**: That is God's honest truth, the food felt good.

**Interviewer**: How did it feel? What was the taste?

**Interviewee**: The milk tea I drunk that day was different from the
one from firewood. Of course, it was my first time to use it, but, yeah,
it felt different and it was good.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) how did it taste?

**Interviewee**: A cup of tea made from firewood taste smoke-like. While
tea made from biogas did not have a smoke-like taste.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how much cooking time did you get after
commissioning?

**Interviewee**: I did not use it for an hour from the day it was
commissioned. It was always going off. But, the day I made tea, I was
very surprised with it; I didn't expect that it works to a point of
making tea and even nsima. That day I was able to make tea and cook
nsima. While the other days it could not even flame, though the bag was
full.

**Interviewer**: How did it work from the day it was commissioned,? I
want to have a picture.

**Interviewee**: I can say it worked weeks.

**Interviewer**: So in those 2, 3, or 4 weeks, were you getting 1 hour
of cooking time?

**Interviewee**: No, only that particular day I made tea, it worked for
almost an hour.

**Interviewer**: Okay. In your opinion, what happened to that day?

**Interviewee**: I think there was too much pressure in the bag.

**Interviewer**: Then, why didn't the pressure keep on?

**Interviewee**: It is because the sun always shines brightest in
summer; during, rainy season it does not shine as in summer.

**Interviewer**: Was the sun more intense on that particular day than
the other days?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was a hot day.

**Interviewer**: When was it installed? Was it in rainy season?

**Interviewee**: No, it wasn't yet the rainy season.

**Interviewer**: Do you remember the month?

**Interviewee**: No, I do not. It is only that I have lost the paper I
was given, everything was there.

**Interviewer**: Were you all installed the digesters around the same
time?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: So, if I have a paper from one it would mean I have the
date and some information that is similar like the date of installation
and all?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Then, I think it was installed in July. I saw the paper
from one of the beneficiary. And, yes it makes sense, May to July is
winter season here. Thanks.

**Interviewee**: Welcome

**Interviewer**: So I can say, you only used the digester once in the
few weeks it produced fire. And, you couldn't cook on it because it was
producing very little fire and sometimes no fire was coming, right?

**Interviewee**: Very true.

**Interviewer**: So the gas was only for cooking?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many people used the gas?

**Interviewee**: We were 7 people.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: For a digester to work it requires locally available
materials, for example, cow manure and water. They told us that if we
feed the digester with manure and water, the bag inflates and produces
gas, which can be light by a matchstick to produce flame for cooking at
the stove.

**Interviewer**: How often did you feed it, and in what quantities?

**Interviewee**: I do not really remember how much feedstock, but they
said we should be feeding it daily.

**Interviewer**: Maybe 5 buckets?

**Interviewee**: No, it wasn't 5 buckets. I think it was 2 buckets. But,
they told us to feed it daily.

**Interviewer**: How much water were you adding to it?

**Interviewee**: I think I was adding 5 liters of water to each 20kg of
cow manure to have suitable slurry.

**Interviewer**: So it was a bucket of manure against 5 liters of water?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, think so.

**Interviewer**: so you were getting all that manure from your cow
house?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: how many cows did you have that time?

**Interviewee**: I had 15 or 16 cows.

**Interviewer**: I'm only seeing here..

**Interviewee**: Some have gone for grazing

**Interviewer**: how many in total do you have now?

**Interviewee**: I have 11

**Interviewer**: Where did you get water?

**Interviewee**: From a borehole

**Interviewer**: Is it within?

**Interviewee**: It is behind that house with iron sheet

**Interviewer**: Oh, about 300 meters from here.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, 300 or 400 meters.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did you prepare your feedstock!

**Interviewee**: We used to mix cow manure and water with a stick. Then,
we poured the feedstock into the digester bag through funnel into the
inlet pipe.

**Interviewer**: Did they provide the provided the funnel...

**Interviewee**: I did not get a funnel, but I made one myself. I was
using it when I was pouring feedstock into the digester to avoid
wastage.

**Interviewer**: Were you told to make one, or you saw that it was
necessary?

**Interviewee**: They told us that it was good to use a funnel when
putting feedstock into the digester to avoid spillage. So we made one
from a 5-liter bottle and it worked perfectly.

**Interviewer**: I have talked with a number of people on that subject,
but many have told me that they used hands instead of stir sticks or any
other mixer because with hands you are able to break lumps or take away
debris. What is your take?

**Interviewee**: If we saw debris, we used to take it out using hands.
We could not leave rubbish in the feedstock, because it has the
potential of damaging the digester. But, in mixing we used a stick, and
it was working quite okay, because we used fresh.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was.

**Interviewer**: Alone?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was hard work, and people used to call us using the
provocative name given to people who collect trash in the city (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how did you feel?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Yeah, but we did not care biogas about that.
What we cared about was to cook on biogas. And, we accepted it too
because it was what it was; it was true, that's what we were doing!

**Interviewer**: Which people were making fun of you?

**Interviewee**: It was the whole community. They were saying all that
because it was new thing to them.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) okay. What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: The installer did not say anything about maintenance.
But, when the people from MERA came they said that the installer didn't
do what they told him to do. So, they said they were going to have a
meeting to find a way forward, so that we could use the digesters again.
But since that time, they have never come back.

**Interviewer**: When was that? Last year?

**Interviewee**: It was last year.

**Interviewer**: What did they say the installers did wrong? Or, they
only said they did things badly?

**Interviewee**: First, they faulted them for not giving us training.
Secondly, they said the start up feed was not done correctly. They said
the installers used more water than they were supposed to. Thirdly, they
said that the design, which was here, was different from their design.
They said the design of our digesters required the wall of the hole to
be lined with a brick wall.

**Interviewer**: How could that have helped?

**Interviewee**: First, it could have helped protected the digester in
general. Secondly, it could have helped the bag to expand in a straight
manner. Also, the bag would not have been moving anyhow. Moreover, I
even saw that our digester bag was shaking on one side, because it had
no wall around it. So, if it had a wall on top of hole it could have
help to stay in its positioning. And also, the inner sides of the hole
were collapsing into the hole because it wasn't lined.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, I think it could have helped because I have heard
in some cases people put stones on top of the bag to increase pressure.
So a brick wall around it would have also helped to push it back, and
maybe, yeah.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the installers told us to put a load on top of
the bag to increase pressure when there was little pressure. And, they
told us not to worry about the load because when there is too much gas
or pressure in the bag it works perfectly even without putting a load.

**Interviewer**: During its short life, did you ever get it working when
it had an issue?

**Interviewee:** No

**Interviewer**: Did it meet your needs during the time it worked?

**Interviewee**: I was only able to cook on it on the day I made the
tea, and I was a very surprised that it worked. I never used it.

**Interviewer**: What challenges did you encounter?

**Interviewee**: The main one was that it did not work at all. Secondly,
they deprived us of knowledge and skills to manage it.

**Interviewer**: What about the fact that people were calling you names?

**Interviewee**: No, that was nothing. You know people always try to
bring you down when you have something good.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, there is always jealous and all that. You said it
produced gas or fire for few weeks, and out of that time, it was only
one day that you were able to make tea and cooking nsima. So, I want to
have a picture of the days you were not using it, like how was it like
when you turned it on?

**Interviewee**: It was like when you put something on it the fire was
going down gradually, and then it would go off.

**Interviewer**: In most cases, how long was the fire taking to die?

**Interviewee:** It was dying in less than 10 minutes.

**Interviewer**: When you switched it on again, what was happening?

**Interviewee**: It was not starting. Sometimes, we could see fire when
we light it up again. Sometimes, it was not producing fire at all. Then,
we tried feeding it daily like we were told for the first time. But,
nothing happened.

**Interviewer**: You mean, you tried feeding it throughout the few weeks
it misbehaved?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we used to feed it.

**Interviewer**: What happened after that?

**Interviewee**: We did not know what to do. So, we reported the issue
to agriculture office because the installers came through their office.

**Interviewer**: Some are saying they were given the numbers of the
installers. Were you given?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I think they gave us their numbers. Yeah, their
numbers were on the paper, they gave us indeed!

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you call them?

**Interviewee**: The digesters were calling us to see how the digesters
were performing. And, we told them they weren't working. And, they were
okay and they find time they would come.

**Interviewer**: Did they come?

**Interviewee**: No. If they came, it was last year.

**Interviewer**: The MERA people?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. The installers only came frequently before and
during installation. After commissioning, they never came again

**Interviewer**: Okaaay, when you talked with them they were like \`\`we
will come, we will come\`\` but, they never did?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this \[intervention
sheet\]?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: It is information about issues common with digesters,
their causes and solutions. What do you think about the information and
could it helped your case?

**Interviewee**: It would have a lot because it could have been like our
reference for any problem associated with the digester.

**Interviewer**: If they gave you that, do you think you could have
solved your problem or it was out of your capacity?

**Interviewee**: If our problem was on this information then today you
could have found it was.

**Interviewer**: Do you know the last time you used it?

**Interviewee**: I do not remember, but it was a few weeks after it was
installed. I remember, we used to feed it as we were told, but still it
was producing very little or no fire at all, then we gave up after we
saw no improvements.

**Interviewer**: So you fed it for few weeks after it failed?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe if the current state of your
digester?

**Interviewee**: I can simply say it is dead; it is not working.

**Interviewer**: Sad!

**Interviewee**: I took off the pipes last year, because I was expecting
them to come at some point all those years.

**Interviewer**: I have seen people using the pipes as clotheslines;
others are using the digester bags as a roof sheet. What are you doing
with the material?

**Interviewee**: I have just kept the materials.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you have it.

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Do you think it can work again?

**Interviewee**: Of course, yes. The installers told us that the
digester bag has a life span of 15 years. And that it cannot be eaten in
15 years by termites or anything. They said other think could get
damaged, but not the bag.

**Interviewer**: Did or do you believe that? I mean, can you believe
anything from them after what happened?

**Interviewee**: That time we believed them because we thought they had
the expertise. But, now it\`s hard to believe them.

**Interviewer**: How did it reach this stage and in your opinion what
caused it to fail?

**Interviewee**: Personally, I think it reached this stage because they
did not give us training especially on feedstock preparation. In
addition, I think it is because they did not give us any training on
maintenance.

**Interviewer**: If you had received the training, things could have
been different?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, maybe today we would have been talking about our
shortfalls.

**Interviewer**: So you think you did do anything wrong in regards to
its failure?

**Interviewee**: I do not see anything we did wrong. We did everything
as we were told.

**Interviewer**: Okay, we are going towards the end of the interview. So
nowadays, you meet your energy needs by firewood and charcoal?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: As for manure, you just keep and remove when it is
close to the rainy season?

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: Where do you dispose it?

**Interviewee**: We just burn it in the cow house.

**Interviewer**: Why do you burn it there?

**Interviewee**: Because that kills, some of the parasites, for example,
ticks.

**Interviewer**: Okay great. How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They did not tell us anything about its actual cost.
They simply said that the digester was expensive.

**Interviewer**: Okay. Who paid for that?

**Interviewee**: I think it was the government, but they got the
digesters in Kenya. The digesters came from Kenya.

**Interviewer**: The installers told you that?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: What kind of special items that had to be imported from
another country? Or, was it all from Kenya? Or, which things are from
Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I'm not 100% sure, where they got it from. But, the
people who installed it are Malawians.

**Interviewer**: During the time you had it, did it help you to save any
money or did you stop going to search for wood or charcoal?

**Interviewee**: No, nothing changed. Not a bit!

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with 3 questions. What is your opinion
of biogas?

**Interviewee**: My opinion of biogas is that if it is possible for the
installers to rehabilitate it, then they should do so because we would
like to atleast see how it works. And, after rehabilitation they
shouldn't forget to train us on it... They should drill us on
maintenance so that we can be able to fix it on our own.

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas?

**Interviewee**: When I think of the day I used it, then I have to say
it is doable. However, it needs to be good installed; it's need
experienced installers. So, this can have a future if and only if it
there can be organization in the manner of its installation.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean organization?

**Interviewee**: They should take us through proper training just like a
school itself. For example, they should be like this is the letter "A",
this is how we write the letter "A" and then they should make us write
the letter "A" on our own. I think this way things can work.... But, the
time they came, they just said this is how we write the letter "A". So
we didn't know the "A" and let alone how to write it. That's why were
stranded.... Take for example electricians, they go for 2 or 3 year
training. After that, they go for practicals or attachments. That helps
the trainers to know or assess the students. So with this one, it would
have helped and worked, if they had given us a 2 or 3 days training.
I\`m sure, out of 5 people, 2 or 3 people would have gained the
expertise to manage it, and the knowledge would have then spread to the
community.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you have a point because they say you know a good
football player on the field, and not in training. So, you were supposed
to go through hands on training and an evaluation process too. If you
could have designed your own waste or any energy intervention, what
would you have chosen instead of biogas?

**Interviewee**: We have seen people using LPG gas, so I think it is a
good alternative of biogas. So, if we could have that opportunity we
would be thankful and we can manage it without issues. I cannot say
solar panels because I have not seen people using them for cooking. And
I'm sure if a solar panel was capable of producing energy for cooking,
then the problem of deforestation couldn't have been an issue because
everyone has a solar panel now.

**Interviewer**: I see. Any last words, before ending we end interview.

**Interviewee**: My word goes to government. If they start a project
they shouldn\`t just abandon it, they need to follow up. If this project
was followed-up for the first 3 months, I'm sure the digesters could
have been working now. They just disposed the digesters here and then
after 2 or 3 years they went back to their papers and decided to come
back. There was no way they could have found the digesters working. They
took too long to follow-up.

**Interviewer**: That\`s true. Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewees** Welcome. Thanks for coming too!
