**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 33**

**Date: September 22, 2022**

**Interviewer:** First, where did this originate from?

**Interviewee**: They gave us a paper, which had information regarding
that, but I don't know where the paper is now. We have moved from one
house to another a lot for a couple of years, so it\`s hard to get track
of things. And, I have not only lost the paper. My ID is also missing.
And, it's unfortunate that when they gave me the paper I didn't
scrutinize it much to the point that I could keep the information in my
head.

**Interviewer**: So you don't know where it came from, but they gave you
a paper that had that information?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Who designed it?

**Interviewee**: I don't know who designed it. Maybe, the other
beneficiaries know or have the paper I'm talking about. But, I remember
that I dug the hole, and I also made the feedstock by myself. I was only
told how to do the tasks though. They told me that after preparing the
feedstock, I should feed the digester and that after sometime I was
going to see the bag inflated.

**Interviewer**: How many people dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: I did it alone. The project installers only came to
place the bag, assemble the pipes and stove.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: It was 4 people.

**Interviewer**: How many people were involved in the preparation of the
feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I sourced manure with my wife.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get it?

**Interviewee**: I went into other people's cow house to collect manure.
Some people gave me 2 bags and I got the rest from other different
people.

**Interviewer**: So you didn't have cows that time?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. I didn't have a cow house. So, some gave me for
free; some people sold us the manure at K1000 a bag.

**Interviewer**: How was it like going to ask you for manure? I mean,
did other people say no?

**Interviewee**: Of course, some people said they couldn't give us for
free. So, they sold us 2 bags at K1000 each... But, we used the digester
for 5 days.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to build it altogether?

**Interviewee**: It took me one day to dig the hole. It also took them a
day to place the digester. And, it took them 3 days to come and assemble
the pipes and the stove, and then start it.

**Interviewer**: So, after starting it you saw fire.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it worked.

**Interviewer**: So, in brief what was your role?

**Interviewee**: That was all; I dug the hole, sourced and made
feedstock. After installation, I found that biogas is a good thing; it's
fast especially when cooking side dish. And, out of all the
beneficiaries in this village, only my digester worked. I mean, I asked
all my friends how their digesters were faring and they responded that
their digesters weren't working.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice. Why do you think your digester worked while
others failed?

**Interviewee**: I think it was how we worked; some people were told to
collect 50 buckets cow manure and could not manage. Some, instead of
using fresh manure were using dry manure. And, indeed, after feeding it
the first time the installers said our digester was going to work, and
it worked.

**Interviewer**: And, you saw the fire?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, everything was good, and I even roasted maize
afterwards.

**Interviewer**: And, were roasted nicely?

**Interviewee**: Very good.

**Interviewer**: After that?

**Interviewee**: I cooked side dish. The next day, it worked in the
afternoon. But, it didn't work in the morning and late hours of the
afternoon because it needs the sun.

**Interviewer**: In this village, there are so many people, even 300
households. How were you selected as a beneficiary was?

**Interviewee**: Before getting into the biogas project, I was in a road
construction project. Before moving to biogas project, they told me I
was going for 9-day training, and I accepted. When they gave us the
digesters, they told us it was a pilot project, so people wanted to see
who was going to be most successful. So, it brought a competitive spirit
among the beneficiaries. And, some beneficiaries were doing things
steady but sure, while others were doing things in haste to show that
they were successive. So out of all the beneficiaries, I was the one who
managed to make it work.

**Interviewer**: So, you were chosen because you are a hard worker?

**Interviewee**: I was a hard worker.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you stopped working hard?

**Interviewee**: No, but I was pulled off by the fact that the digester
couldn't work for a long time when there was no sun.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I was expecting to learn about biogas at the 9-day
training, but it never happened.

**Interviewer**: So, before they came you didn't know anything about
biogas, but you expected to learn about it at the 9-day training, but it
never materialized?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: You have mentioned how you were moved from the road
project to biogas project. How were the other beneficiaries chosen? I
mean, who selected you to move from the road project to the biogas
project? What was the selection process like?

**Interviewee**: we had a community meeting at the senior chief's
residence, that\'s where they chose as beneficiaries, and the people
bore witness. I mean, when it was time for the people of Mcheleka to
choose a beneficiary, I was chosen by the people, since I'm a resident
of Mcheleka village and the people saw that I was skilled enough to run
it and be exemplary to the community. Then, I was like fine, write my
name.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you say no?

**Interviewee**: Saying no would have meant that I had also rejected my
chief.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) oh, you didn't want to shame your chief?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah, I didn\'t want to embarrass him.

**Interviewer**: If I have had you correctly, you have said the people
of your village. Do you mean there were people from different villages?

**Interviewee**: At the community meeting, there were seven chiefs from
different villages with their people under one Senior Chief. So, because
they wanted five beneficiaries, three villages were taken as one
village. Then, they told us that there was a project, and whoever was
interested was welcome to submit their names. Many people didn't give
their names because; they didn't want to handled cow manure regularly;
some people didn't like smell of cow manure, so they thought biogas was
worth all that. At that point, people were not told that they would go
for training. People were only told that there was a project called
biogas, its requirements and that the digesters address cooking needs,
and whoever was interested was welcome to give their name... Then, the
chief told me that they were moving me from the road construction
project to biogas project, as I could not be involved in both projects.
But, I was hesitant to move because I was not sure if the training was
going to happen. Then, he assured the all the beneficiaries that we
would go for training on biogas, and I accepted to move. And, I everyone
saw my name taken out of the road project to the biogas project. So,
that's how I was selected, and after some time the digester came.

**Interviewer**: What was the road project about? And, what is your
role?

**Interviewee**: It was a community built road project by MASAF, and I
was earning K18,000 each month for taking part in building community
roads.

**Interviewer**: so you accepted to let go K18000?

**Interviewee**: Yes, but that was not a problem since I'm a fisherman,
I make K2000 a day when I go to the river to fish. So, I make K15000 a
month.

**Interviewer**: It's K60000

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah, it's K60000.

**Interviewer**: That's a lot! Interesting, you have touched on an
interesting subject for me. I remember one time I was working with a
certain NGO on wash project. So, I was involved in creating and
strengthening water point committees. During that time, I observed that
when you are working with community people, if you want to get them
engaged or get full attention, you have to bring in the element of
training. It's was surprising to see how people would put in effort and
so much interest in tasks once you mentioned training. I will put it to
you, why are community people so interested in trainings?

**Interviewee**: That's very true.....That time this was commissioned
many people came to see me roasting maize. People were taking videos and
pictures, and they commended me for the good work.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) amazing. But you haven't answered my question.
I want to know why community people get so enthusiastic about projects
once you tell them that one day you're going to take them for training?
Why are community people so obsessed with trainings?

**Interviewee**: I can say community people become interested in
projects depending on how the whole project is introduced. If you tell
them that a project has no component of training they accept and the
work without issues. But, once you tell them that a project will involve
trainings people become even more interested because we know they will
get "something out" at the end of training.

**Interviewer**: So it's about the money, the training allowances to
some extent?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Did you receive any training? What kind of training did
you receive?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't receive.

**Interviewer**: You didn't know about biogas before, then how were you
able to switch it on and off, if you didn\`t receive trainings?

**Interviewee**: On the day of commissioning the digester, they just
said \`friend\` we have switched it on, how did we do that? So, I saw
them taking a matchstick and lighting the burners after opening the gas
valve and turning the control knob at the stove, therefore I did the
same. I didn't go for training.

**Interviewee**: What else?

**Interviewee**: An, I was also told how to make feedstock as they were
installing it.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the reactor did you feel
you were after all that?

**Interviewee**: Very much so! I saw them turning it on and off, and
they told me what to do once there was no gas in the bag as well. So, I
knew that I would be able to run it because I had gained knowledge to
run it, though without the training.

**Interviewer**: What did they tell you to do when there was no gas?

**Interviewee**: There were two things to look at when there was no gas
production. First, we had to see if there was the sun or not, because it
doesn\'t produce gas when there is no sun; when it's hot like this, it
produces gas. Secondly, if the sun was out, then we had to feed it with
feedstock at the inlet pipe to produce gas.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: I would have been very happy today to see it working
because I couldn't be using firewood for cooking. Now, I have no
expectation of it working again because some people punctured it, and my
children punctured it at some point as well. So, it is sad and it hurts
to see my wife suffering sourcing firewood. So, I hope to have it again
one day.

**Interviewer**: What did the installers tell you to expect from this?

**Interviewee**: I'm not sure if they were saying some of the things
just to make us pumped up, so that we could make their work easy. I
remember they told us that they didn't want us to handle feedstock with
bare hands. So, they promised us gloves, work suit, wheelbarrows,
gumboots and shovels. They didn't give us all that, but that wasn't a
problem because we managed to prepare feedstock effectively with our
bare hands. Still, it wasn't easy to pick manure with hands, so at some
point I only managed to buy a shovel to help me in collecting fresh
manure.

**Interviewer**: At what price?

**Interviewee**: It was K4000, I think.

**Interviewer**: So, you expected to cook without sourcing wood, and you
expected to get items like gloves and work suits and all. Apart from
these, what else did you expect or what else were you told to expect?

**Interviewee**: That was that.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: Before that, I was using an energy efficient stove
given to us by Goal Malawi. However, the stoves were not durable, so we
didn't use it for long. After that, I was using a two-hole firewood
stove given to us by DAPP \[Development Aid From People To People\].

**Interviewer**: What's wrong with those stoves \[points to the
stoves\]?

**Interviewee**: It's like when you use it for 2 weeks or so, it
develops a crack and it eventually breaks into two.

**Interviewer**: Oh,

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and when it does that you can't fix it.

**Interviewer**: I can imagine that throughout this time you used
firewood for cooking. Where did you get?

**Interviewee**: We exchange firewood with sweet potato with women from
the hillside.

**Interviewer**: So they come here and you do exchange?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we make heaps of sweet potatoes and say this heap
is, for example, K1000, and they make bundles of firewood and tag a
price to it, and then we balance up. So, that's how we exchange firewood
with sweet potato.

**Interviewer**: So, how was it like around the 5 days you used the
digester? Did you send them back?

**Interviewee**: Nothing changed because the digester was only working
in the afternoon, so at night we still needed firewood.

**Interviewer**: You said you didn't have cows or any livestock, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Do you have now?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did you do it after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: After the digester bag got full, the installers came.
When they came, they called me to observe what they were doing. First,
they opened gas valves and I had heard a certain sound indicating gas
movement. Then, they asked me to get matchstick but I did not have, so I
asked my little child to buy. When we got matchstick, they opened the
stove and lighted the burner. Then, they asked me what I wanted to cook,
so I told them I wanted roasted maize, and put maize on the stove. When
people saw what was happening they started coming one by one to see me
roasting maize on biogas. While, I was roasting maize people were saying
that I had hit a jackpot. We managed to roast the maize, and I shared it
with the people to eat. Some people from Mozambique even came to see me
roasting maize.

**Interviewer**: Approximately, how many people came, and what was their
reaction?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot of people. I don't know how many people.
It was a lot. People from the upper side of the village came to see the
whole thing. People from Mozambique when passing by, were even coming to
see what was happening.

**Interviewer**: What did they say?

**Interviewee**: They liked it and wanted to have one too.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get after that?

**Interviewee**: The next day, I cooked dry fish and nsima
\[approximately one hour of cooking time\] in the afternoon. But, when I
was trying to cooking nsima in the evening, it didn't work (laughs)

**Interviewer**: How did you feel?

**Interviewee**: I kind of expected that because the installers told us
that it wouldn't work in the evening. They said they would bring some
equipment that was going to enable us to cook in the evening and to use
it for lighting as well. So, we expected that, but they never came with
the equipment.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. Uh, they gave you their numbers, I mean, did
you follow up on this prospect?

**Interviewee**: I called them, but their numbers didn't go through. So,
I went to the extension worker to ask, and he told me that he was also
trying them but the calls weren't going through. I asked him if they had
blocked us, but he told me that he had no idea. Then, he went on to say
that, they were going to come back at some point, so I shouldn't worry.
So, I think this is the day, praise be to God (laughs).

**Interviewer**: (laughs) I don\`t even know how to install a digester,
brother. How did you use the gas? Was it for cooking only?

**Interviewee**: I was also using it for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many people used the gas?

**Interviewee**: We were 6 people.

**Interviewer**: So have said you only used it for 5 days?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: How was cooking like in those 5 days?

**Interviewee**: It was somewhat similar; I was only using it in the
afternoon.

**Interviewer**: Can you quantify the cooking time you were getting? How
many hours did you get in the afternoon?

**Interviewee**: It was 1 hour or so.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: One of the gentlemen whose name was on the
documentation paper told us that we would require cow manure and water.

**Interviewer**: What else was required?

**Interviewee**: That was all.

**Interviewer**: So, what were you supposed to do with cow manure and
water?

**Interviewee**: To start it up, they told me that I should mix six bags
of cow manure with 100 liters of water. So that day I woke up at 4:00
a.m. and started searching for manure. I went to \[name redacted\]
house, and then I went to \[name redacted\] house to pick manure, though
he was a beneficiary too. He didn't hold back because he was my father
in law. But, when I went to \[name redacted\] house, he told me that he
couldn't give the manure for free. So, I bought him. I think I paid him
K1000. I did this job with my wife, while my children were collecting
water. After we got enough water and cow manure, we mixed it and then
poured it in the digester.

**Interviewer**: I have heard about \[name redacted\] the other
beneficiary. I heard his whole family was murdered in the most gruesome
way. How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: What happened was bizarre. I can't just figure out how
some people would do that. Talking of feedstock, we were placing cow
manure in a bucket, add water and then mix with bare hands, like my
hands are now, since we didn't have gloves. Whenever we saw lumps, we
crushed them to have a smooth feedstock. After making smooth and
slightly thick slurry, I used to pour it in the digester. I finished the
work around 9 AM, and around 11 AM it started making a certain sound,
then after some days the bag got full and I hit it with my fingers it
was producing a bell like sound. So, I knew there was gas in the bag,
but after some days, it was punctured.

**Interviewer**: You said people at some point punctured your digester.
Why do you think they did that? Was it out of jealous or anything?

**Interviewee**: I can't know because that time I was away on my fish
trip. The problem was that my house was close to a footpath. As a
result, the installers also placed the digester close to the footpath,
so it was easy for people to puncture it. So you never know people,
until you dine with them. Thus, some day we found it punctured because
of jealousy. But, I've seen have beneficiary cutting it on purpose to
make makeshift doors or roofing sheets (laughs). Then, I heard all the
people from Kachere cut the digesters because they were useless. But, I
was happy that out of all the people here I was the one who used it for
long.

**Interviewer**: Only for 5 days?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and even if the installers come and do an
evaluation, people would see that I was the one who performed best among
all the beneficiaries.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) I think 5 days is just too little to say you
use it.

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) But, if you compare with my colleagues,
that\`s success.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was responsible.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about feeding it? Didn't you found it
involving?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't find it involving because I knew that was
the only way that would stop us from sourcing firewood. And, it was
exciting for me to use a modern technology for cooking, though I was
only able to cook in the afternoon.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee:** They said if the problem was at the stove, we should
call them. But, if there was gas leakage on the bag or anywhere, then we
could seal the punctured place ourselves with an adhesive. Then, I asked
them if it was necessary for us to buy an adhesive since they told us
that they would provide anything for us. Then they just said if there
was a leakage, we should inform them. Then, we had problems and called
them, but they didn't come. So, we knew that it was up to us to maintain
it, and that's why many beneficiaries abandoned it when they faced a
problem, because we didn't know what to do.

**Interviewer**: You have said it stopped working after 5 days. How did
it stop? Did it go off at once or something?

**Interviewee**: It stopped working after 5 days because the weather
changed. It became cloudy and cold. Then, after some days, the sun came
out, but my wife didn't switch it on.

**Interviewer**: You weren't around that time?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was away. When I was leaving, I told my wife
that I'm going for a business trip, use it when the sun is back and when
the bag is full. But, my wife is illiterate, so she didn't pay attention
to what I told her regarding its operation. So, she didn't use it.

**Interviewer**: Do you think it needs someone who has gone to school?

**Interviewee**: Yes, school helps a lot because it makes people to
understand things easily.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so I those 5 days, did you meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: After it worked for 5 days, I went for a business trip
a day after. Then, when I was away, my wife called and told me that the
sun didn't come out and the bag was deflated. Then, I told her that once
the sun was out the digester bag would inflate. The next day, the sun
rose, and she told me that the sun was out, but she admitted that she
didn\`t know how to operate it. Then, I told her not to bother and let
it be, so she didn't use it. Then, later that night I think some people
took advantage that I wasn't around, and punctured it. Then, she
informed me that people had punctured it.

**Interviewer**: So, it took about 6 or 7 days for people to puncture
it? (Laughs)

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Jealousy people!

**Interviewee**: Some people weren't happy to see me use it.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think some would just come and puncture your
digester bag?

**Interviewee**: Our \[Sena\] tribe is hard to understand. It's
different from people from the north \[Tumbuka tribe\]. People from the
north are united; no one feels more or less important than the next
person; and they support each other. People here just not like to see
others doing well in life. Here you cannot get support from anyone,
excerpt from very close friends. Even people who you went to school are
always jealousy of your success. Jealousy is just too much here!

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of our interview. What
were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: We faced many challenges; one was that we did not
receive training. Another problem was that unknown people punctured the
digester. Secondly, it was hard for us to take it out of the house when
we were told to moving out of the house by our landlord. So, you can see
the challenges were just too many.

**Interviewer**: I'm also thinking of the challenge you had with it when
it came to cooking during evening.... Wasn't it producing fire at all?
Or, it was producing very little fire?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't producing fire at all, zero!

**Interviewer**: They told you if it had a puncture, you could seal it
using an adhesive. Did you try to fix it after people punctured it?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't because we moved to another house. But,
before we moved, children who liked to play around it also cut it. And
this made the problem bigger than the first one. The first one, I could
have tried to seal it with an adhesive. But, the second one was so big
that I couldn't even dare to try (Laughs).

**Interviewer**: (laughs) and, even if you could have fixed it, they
could have come back again.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) very possible.

**Interviewer**: Have you seen that before?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: This is information regarding problems common on
digesters. For example, it tells you if it's not producing fire, It is
because of this and that, and it also tells you it's possible solutions.
What do you think of this information and would it have helped in your
case?

**Interviewee**: If they couldn\'t manage to give us training, then they
would have at least given as that information. With that information we
could have at least had understand of it. But, sadly, they just gave us
their names and phone numbers to call, and their number didn't even
work.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) it's sad. Today is 22^nd^ of September, if the
installers can call you today and ask you describe the current state of
your digester, what do you say?

**Interviewee**: I can tell them straight forward that the digester is
now part of my roof structure, it's a roof sheet now! I can't keep words
from them (Stops speaking to attend to a visitor)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) so you can tell them open now that it's a roof
sheet now?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) I can't tell them that, it's rude. Ah, I can't
say that, I can only tell them that the digester is not working. But, we
have the materials.

**Interviewer**: Where are the materials?

**Interviewee**: The digester bag is on top of the roof, and other
things are in the house.

**Interviewer**: I will see all that at the end. How do you meet your
energy needs now that it is not working?

**Interviewee**: Now we use firewood.

**Interviewer**: Charcoal? Do you use charcoal?

**Interviewee**: Honestly speaking, I don't use charcoal. I remember
this other time forest officials caught me with two bags of charcoal as
I was passing through a roadblock. I told them that I didn't make the
charcoal, but I only bought it, and they told that was still an offense
by forest laws. So, they took the two bags from me, so from there on I
don't buy charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Don't people come here to sell charcoal here? I mean,
with that you can't still use charcoal because it's not like they come
into the houses to check if you have charcoal?

**Interviewee**: No, some women sell maize cobs at a certain place
within the village, so when we don't have firewood, as it is the case
now, we go there to buy the maize cobs. They come around 5:00 PM, we
could have gone together to see what happens, if you had time. So,
that's what we use.

**Interviewer**: So you use that for cooking as well!

**Interviewee**: Yeah!

**Interviewer**: We are about to finish our interview; we have five more
questions to go. How did reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They said it was K200000.

**Interviewer**: Who paid for that?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I have forgotten. But, if I had the paper, you
could have seen. I always make digital copies of such papers and put in
my phone, but I don't know why I didn't do so that time.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: I contributed nothing. I didn't give them any like a
chicken or something. But, I did kill a chicken for them to eat while
they were working.

**Interviewer**: Good hospitality, uh!

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah! I was like to these are my visitors
let's support each other. So, I got a chicken and cooked it for them!

**Interviewer**: You killed a chicken for nothing, uh (laughs)

**Interviewee**: Ah, no. I didn't want them to go hungry, despite the
fact they were getting allowances (laughs)

**Interviewer**: That's so kind of you. Next time, I will tell you well
in advance that I'm coming when I get you number. The number I had of
you didn't work. I want a chicken here next time like them! Moving on,
you have said you dug the hole alone, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you line it with plaster or a brick wall?

**Interviewee**: No. It's was just a round hole.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you that you could line it?

**Interviewee**: Yes, they did. They said whoever could manage to buy a
bag of cement should do so to protect soil from collapsing into the
hole. But, we didn't do that because our bag was well placed and fitted
perfectly into the hole. So, we only stacked bricks around it to prevent
debris from getting into the hole.

**Interviewer**: You just stack the bricks?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and at the outlet, I made a hole without lining
it with plaster or a brick wall. The hole was for collecting digestate.

**Interviewer**: Did you use the digestate?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Why? They didn't tell you that you could use it?

**Interviewee**: We thought that when the digestate stays in the hole
for some days it loses value, and became useless.

**Interviewer**: But, people who use manure keep manure for some time
before using it. So, didn't you think it was kind of the same? Why
didn't you use it as fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: Our fields are very far away from here. But, if we had
gardens around then you would have been using it. We found it tiresome
to carry a bag of digestate there. Our farms are not within this
community, they are in Mozambique.

**Interviewer**: So you mean you don't carry a bag of fertilizer there?

**Interviewee**: The people here don't use fertilizer. Maybe, others
don't, but a lot of people don't. It's only in Chidisi where people use
fertilizer. But, here I don't think so, and I have never seen a person
using manure.

**Interviewer**: Why don't people use fertilizer or manure?

**Interviewee**: The soil here is so fertile. When we plant maize, it
grows well, and it produces strong maize cobs with big ears.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you are lucky. People are stressing over fertilizer
in some areas.

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country? i.e. did they tell you were the materials came from?

**Interviewee**: They said the digester is from my abroad. They also
said the donor was international as well. So, urged us to take good care
of it.

**Interviewer**: They just said the donor was international, but they
didn't say the name?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us the name of the donor. They only
said the donor was international and that one day he would come. They
went on to say that, only 10 people from two villages of Mtologo and
Kachere were the beneficiaries.

**Interviewer**: Did you save any money in those 5 days it worked? If
so, how much money?

**Interviewee**: Of course, I saved some money. I mean, when I wanted to
buy firewood and cook, I was spending K500 per day; one for lunch, and
the other for supper. So, in those days, I can say I was saving K250 a
day, which I used to buy soap and other things.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas? When you hear of
biogas, what comes into your mind?

**Interviewee**: When I had biogas, I was like in a different world. Of
course, I was able to use it in the afternoon only; still it gave my
wife an opportunity to rest. I wasn't seeing my wife going around
searching for firewood as I used to. So, it gave us rest and our lives
were better

**Interviewer**: So, it's a good thing?

**Interviewee**: Right?

**Interviewer**: Its drawbacks?

**Interviewee**: It\`s what I have already said. If the bag deflates, it
doesn't produce strong fire.

**Interviewer**: I though you only need to feed it to keep the bag
inflated?

**Interviewee**: It\'s not possible to keep it full all the times
because we don't feed it daily. They told us to feed it after every two
days, so we couldn't keep the bag full all the times. When we fed it,
the gas didn't stay long to go to the next day, so it's a big challenge.

**Interviewer**: Oh! What is the future biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I believe, if I wasn't travelling a lot, I would have
managed to move with it from house to house. So, my travels resulted in
its failure. Also, the fact it was punctured by people made it not to
last long.

**Interviewer**: But, we are talking about 10 people who were given to
run it and hoping that the community would adopt it. But, all 10 people,
including you failed to manage it, so do you think you would have
managed it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I mean out of the 10 people, I was the best and
my friends were even saying that I tried managed and make it work. So if
it was to work, I was the only person who would have made it work here.
But, my going in and out are the cause of its failure. So, I think it
just need close attention from both the installers and the users to make
it work.

**Interviewer**: Last question, okay, if you could have decided your own
energy or waste intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee:** There are a lot of technologies that are coming into
the country. Whatever it be wind powered energy interventions or solar
powered interventions, which can be used for cooking. So, I can go for
such interventions, and I can give my all to make it work.

**Interviewer**: Why such interventions?

**Interviewee**: There are reliable because the wind will always be
there. The sun will always be there.

**Interviewer**: That's the end; do you have anything to say?

**Interviewee**: I would to thank you for coming with your research. I'm
so glad you have come. In regards to biogas, it has been many years
without people coming to follow up on this, so we are thank for that.
And, I have to say we feel like we have unfinished business with biogas,
and we would like to maybe use it someday.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for the interview, and I appreciate for sharing
your time with me. I have hold your for long, I saw that you were going
for a football game, hope I haven't taken much of your time.

**Interviewee**: It's okay, and the game hasn't started yet, so it's
fine.

**Interviewer**: Thanks.
