**[BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT]{.underline}**

**Site ID: 34**

**Date: September 23, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: The project implementers came from Lilongwe. I have
forgotten the name of their organization though, But, they came here
with agriculture extension workers. They said the aim of their coming
was to install digesters, which use cow manure for cooking. Then, they
asked us to do some work which took us 2 weeks. First, they told us to
mix cow manure and water. So, we found 5 bags (50 kgs) of fresh cow
manure. Then, we closed the outlet and inlet pipes, so that the reactor
could produce gas. We were told that the reactor needs the sun, like it
is shining now to produce gas. Then, they went on to say the digester
bag inflates once it has gas that burns and produce flame for cooking.
After that, we dug a hole of 2 meters wide and 5 meters deep, I think.
Then, we waited for 2 weeks, but when we tried it didn't work. The fire
was very little that we could not use. Therefore, I think something went
wrong. After that, they came again and we told them that it wasn't
working as we could not cook on it or even boil water for bathing. Then,
they told us that the hole needed to be lined with a brick wall to
insulate or heat the bag. We told them we couldn't manage to get cement,
but we could manage to mobilize bricks and sand. So, they said they
would see what they could do. We waited for over a year, but they didn't
come back. Then, after two years, the digester bag collapsed. We tried
to feed and get the bag back, but it didn't work out. Then, at some
point, a calf that would have cost K200000 fell in the hole and broke a
leg. So, we decided to take it out to protect the livestock. Therefore,
we took the digester bag out and covered the hole - so that's where we
are today. But, I can say we never used it. When we tried to cook nsima,
but it would only simmer, and then it would stop producing gas.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot of people. I remember they were coming in
cars. They were coming often, but at some point, they stopped coming.
And all that time the digester bag was full that you could stand on it
without collapsing, but it wasn't just producing fire. So, we just
abandoned it, and continued using firewood as you can see. Then, we
bought a charcoal burner after seeing that it wasn\'t enough to use
firewood only.... And as one of the person who was chosen to use benefit
from the pilot project, I can say we need a different innovation, as
biogas doesn't have the capacity to produce gas that people would use
for cooking. And, when you go to the office tell the people there that
biogas doesn't have capacity to work and meet people\`s needs So please
bring a different innovation, for example, a solar system which we can
use for lightning and cooking.... If you were there that time and saw
how we worked, you could feel sorry for us that we wasted energy for
nothing. We sourced a lot of water and 5 bags of fresh cow manure for
one week from Chamtutu which wasn't easy, and people were even wondering
what we were doing, and why we were getting manure from other people
when we had our own cow house. So, it was a lot of manure that I
couldn\`t even manage to get from my cow house for a week... So when you
go back tell them that the people have removed the digesters, because it
was a danger to livestock, and that they want a different solution, and
not biogas.

**Interviewer**: How many times did they come?

**Interviewee**: It's been many times. We have been receiving many
visitors for a number of times. We've been receiving people from
Lilongwe, Blantyre to check the digester together with our extension
workers from Tengani EPA.

**Interviewer**: You said you dug the hole, how many people dug the
hole.

**Interviewee**: I dug the hole by myself.

**Interviewer**: I can see that you have a few boys here, why did you
dig the hole alone?

**Interviewee**: That time my boys were in school getting their
diplomas.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to dig it?

**Interviewee**: It took me 2 days. So before digging they just gave me
dimensions to work on. Then, l dug it according to instructions, and
then we made feedstock and fed the bag. After a week or two, they came
to install the digester. When they switched it on, it produced very
little fire not enough to cook anything.

**Interviewer**: How many people were involved in feedstock preparation?

**Interviewee**: It was my wife and I. I remember we had to move around
the village to search for extra manure, as our manure was not enough. It
took us time because it wasn't easy to gather one bag or so a day. And
it's harder to gather one bag of fresh manure than dry manure. It seems
simple but it's not. And I'm sure if the project implementers saw work
we did they would have felt pity and given us money.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: They just said it was students from Chancellor College,
who were trying out the digester to see if they would work. So, we
thought their study was going to help us, but we were wrong as we didn't
benefit anything.

**Interviewer**: How were you selected as a beneficiary? What was the
selection process?

**Interviewee**: The chiefs chose the people. They chose people who were
hard working and active in community development projects. Every time
there is a community project I'm always there, I never miss a session.
For example, if there is an agricultural scheme activity which needs
volunteers, I'm always there working on treadle pumps to get water for
the crops. So, chiefs saw that and thought that I could manage the
digester as well.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, not at all. I had never seen or heard about biogas
before.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so you say they chose you because of your hard
work?

**Interviewee**: yeah, five hard working people were chosen.

**Interviewer**: And you can confirm that the other four beneficiaries
are hard working as you?

**Interviewee**: Very much so. The man who has directed you \[name
redacted\] here is a hard-working man. Even, Chief \[name redacted\] is
a hard worker too. He's always pushing us in community development
projects. He leads by example. So, we always work hand in hand with him.
You can't have development in a community like this with a lazy chief,
so our chief is a hard worker, and that's why he has good working
relationship with extension workers and other community workers.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected to use it for cooking and to give us some
rest especially women in regards to searching firewood for cooking. So,
we thought our women with the coming in of the digesters would not have
a hard time sourcing and igniting fire especially after returning from
the farms. So, we thought it was going to take away that burden from
them. And, when it came my wife was on the forefront collecting manure,
and she even told me that we shouldn't go to the farms for a week in
order to concentrate on this. So, I was happy because I expected my wife
to get rest in terms difficulties she faces in cooking. And when we were
trying it, she was so happy to see the water boiling. I have never seen
her so happy in a while. The neighbors came and saw it, and there were
so happy too saying it was our time to rest. And, a lot of people came
because it was a new thing and they wanted it in their houses too. But,
we told them that if things go well for us, then they would have a
chance to own one in the future. \[Goes away to chase goats eating
maize\]

**Interviewer**: Troublesome goats!

**Interviewee**: I was also a beneficiary of the goats too.

**Interviewer**: What did the installers say you should expect from
this?

**Interviewee**: They said if things go well, then more people would get
the digesters up to the point every household gets one, so that people
should stop cutting trees for cooking.

**Interviewer**: Oh, if the digester had worked, it could have been a
very good thing for the community and the environment.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, very true.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: We did not receive training and that's why we found
ourselves in a very difficult situation. I thought at the end of it, my
wife and I, were going for training to learn about biogas and even get
training allowance. I thought two of us were going for training, so that
if one was not around the other one would manage it. Or, at least they
could have just got my wife to training because she's the one who spends
most of the time in the kitchen. But, they just gave us the digester
without training, and we were very saddened by that. \[Stop to chase
goats eating maize\].

**Interviewer**: So you didn't receive any training?

**Interviewee**: We didn't receive any training. Not even for a day.
They just installed the digester and told us to do this and that.

**Interviewer**: What was that?

**Interviewee**: They just taught us how to make feedstock. They also
told us to feed the digester whenever the bag was deflating. They also
told us how to make the hole. But, other than that they didn't teach us
anything.

**Interviewer**: I suppose they told you how to switch it on and off,
like how to operate it.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us how to switch it on and off. Then,
they told us that when we saw very little gas coming, we needed to feed
it with a bag of manure to boost it up... That was it! \[Stop to chase
goats\] ... We got these goats from DAPP to improve our livelihood. I
got five goats; one buck and four nannys. The plan is that when they
conceive I should give to other people who would also give to other
people and so on.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice. So after all that talk, how prepared to run
or operate the reactor did you feel you were?

**Interviewee**: I think, we would have managed to operate it, but the
problem was that it didn\'t produce enough gas from the onset, so we
didn't use it all. It didn't produce gas to help us in any way. So the
problem was that they were supposed to line the hole a brick wall around
it to make it work, but they didn't. Personally, it could have been
better if they had just installed solar panels because it doesn't really
depend on the sun as a digester does.

**Interviewer**: When the chiefs chose you, you had the right to say no,
but you didn't. Why did you accept to build the digester here?

**Interviewee**: You don't say no to a project that's intended to
develop the community. We felt very lucky to be chosen out of 200 or 300
people in the community. We thought God chose us, because there were so
many people who could have got it. But, God favored us out of those
people, so we couldn't have said no; if they chose us to go steal
something, then we would have said no. If someone gives you work that
you would be paid or benefit, you don't say no; so, what more to be
given something beneficial for free. Thus, when we got it we were
thankful to God and to the NGO because we struggle a lot in the rainy
season, as charcoal is hard to find, let alone to dry wood.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: We use firewood and dry stems of certain plants from
the fields, and it's what you are seeing there. It's very common here.
The last couple of days we had no charcoal. We have bought charcoal
yesterday. It's that bag there.

**Interviewer**: Okay, before this came were you using charcoal as well?

**Interviewee**: No, we were using firewood. It's only this year because
of hunger. It has forced people of a certain village to sell charcoal
here. They sell charcoal at K2500. So before they started bringing
charcoal here we used to burn logs and use it as coal because it burns
longer... Because of hunger, the people of Mpelembe have started making
charcoal to sell here... But, they do it illegally and when forest
officials catch them, they are sent to prison. So, they are only doing
this because of hunger. There is famine there also because it's hard to
find land for farming there. Even us, we don\`t have land to plant
crops, so we don't plant maize here. We plant maize in Mozambique.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you grow maize in Mozambique?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we grow maize in Mozambique. Of course, we also
grow maize here, but it's a small portion because of shortage of land.
So, we get our food from Mozambique.

**Interviewer**: How many cows do you have?

**Interviewee**: Right now, I have 9 cows but that time I had more than
20 cows. I sold some because of financial problems, and also because I
was paying for my children's education. My son you saw there was doing a
diploma in electrical engineering, and my daughter is in secondary
school. So, I value my children's education because I don't want them to
be illiterate like me. So, I sell cows to pay fees for them and I don't
feel like I'm losing. I also sold cows to pay fees for my other child
who now working with Escom. So, you can see that I\`m keen in educating
my children, and it has started bearing results.

**Interviewer**: Oh nice. You are doing the right thing; education is
the best investment a parent can make in their children. How did you
manage your feedstock before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: Around this time of the year, we gather dry manure onto
one place in the cow house. And then we burn the manure to repel
mosquitoes and ticks, which are a nuisance to cows.

**Interviewer:** How did you learn that?

**Interviewee:** It's common knowledge here. Everybody knows it here.

**Interviewer**: Interesting! You said you used five bags of fresh cow
manure to start it up, how much water did you use?

**Interviewee**: We used one drum (200L) of water.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We got it from a borehole.

**Interviewer**: Okay, you also mentioned that you used cow dung from
your cows as well as cow dung from other people. How was it like to get
dung from other people?

**Interviewee**: Everything was okay. There was no problem. The people
here are always happy when there is a community development project, so
they always contribute towards its success in whatever way. Everywhere I
went to ask for cow dung the people were forthcoming and they gave me
cow manure as I wished.

**Interviewer**: Some people have told me that it's not easy to go into
someone's cow house because some cow owners use rituals that do not
allow strangers to go in their cow houses, what's your take on this?

**Interviewee**: Of course, but it depends on the reasons of going
inside the cow house. If you are just going there to collect cow manure,
there's no problem. You can enter. But, if you're going there to steal,
then there's a problem and that's when rituals work and are for. For
example, a girl who has begun puberty is not allowed to go in my cow
house. A girl who is 11 or 12 years can't enter my cow house. And now
with the change in life, some girls start puberty as early as 9 years,
those I don't allow to go into my cow house. But, a girl who hasn't
started puberty can enter into my cow house without any problem.

**Interviewer**: Why? Or, what is the ritual for?

**Interviewee**: "Nothing!" For example, if you can ask me to go there,
I can allow you. But, if you could come to steal then you wouldn\`t see
the cow house there, it will disappear and you might even get in serious
trouble.

**Interviewer**: So, maybe the ritual for you is that a girl who has
started puberty shouldn't go in. Maybe for others the ritual is that a
stranger should not enter their cow house...

**Interviewee**: Ah, no. People do allow others to go in their cow
houses. And the ritual works for thieves who come at night and it
doesn't work for thieves who come in the day light. But that's fine,
because thieves don't come in the day light.

**Interviewer**: Okay, I see. How did it work after commission?

**Interviewee**: On the day of commissioning, it worked for half an
hour. First, we tried it with bathing water. Then, water boiled and I
went to bath. Then, we put a pot of nsima, when I was bathing I heard
that it had gone off (laughs). Then, we went to the digester bag and we
found it full. But, after some time the bag started deflating.

**Interviewer**: What happened the next day?

**Interviewee**: On the second day after coming from the fields, we did
put a pot to heat side dish from the previous day and it heated up \[5
minutes\], here we do not throw away food, as you do in town, we keep
for the next day, the side dish heated up. But, after we put a pot of
nsima, it went off again. Then, when we went to the digester bag and
poked it, the bag pitched, so we knew that there was no gas in it. After
that, we decided to feed it with two buckets of cow manure. So after it
was feed, it produced little gas and it went off. That was in November,
and the bag continued to shrink back. It continued to shrink from
December through April. In May, that's when the bag completely deflated,
and there was no sign of air in the bag afterwards. Some people last
year or previous year came to see it. They found the bag completely
collapsed, and I told them that the digester had brought nothing but
problems to me. So, they told me that they were going to bring new
digesters, but up now I have never seen them again. Then, that's when a
calf fell into the pit and broke its legs. So, I decided to simply take
out the bag and cover the pit. It was so hard to get it out because it
was full of manure. I remember 10 people failed to carry it, so we cut
it to take out the contents.

**Interviewer**: So from the time it was installed, you never cooked
nsima. If you ever used it, it was only for boiling water for bathing,
and heating side dish, just once as well.

**Interviewee**: Cooking nsima on it was a tall order -- that was
impossible. It was like asking for a lot. It never happened! Things have
not been good for me. It started with the digester. Then my other child
has been in the hospital for 8 months now, and my child was involved in
an accident some weeks back, so things have been tough for me.

**Interviewer**: Oh sorry. I hope things will work out for you -- God be
with you.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, thanks.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: It was just cow dung and water.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you feed it and how often?

**Interviewee**: I was feeding it on Sunday. So, the feedstock was
working from Monday to Saturday, and on Sunday, I was refilling it
again.

**Interviewer**: You were only feeding it on Sunday?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was only feeding it on Sunday.

**Interviewer**: What were you feeding it and how often?

**Interviewee**: I was feeding it with one bucket of cow manure, thick
as this.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add?

**Interviewee**: One bucket of 20 liters. Sometimes, after feeding it in
the morning, we were also told to add water especially if it was too hot
to help the reactor to breakdown the manure. When we did this, we could
here certain loud sound in the bag.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: First, I was placing the manure in a bucket. Then, I
was filling a bucket with water. After that, I was mixing manure and
water with hands to break down the lumps. Then, I was using a stick to
stir the mixture until it was smooth. After that, I was pouring the
mixture in the digester where it was broken down by heat as well as
water. I was breaking the lumps and then stir because if I did not do
that then feedstock would not have passed through the inlet pipe and
blocked it eventually.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was doing everything, like I said my boys were not
around l that time.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about feeding?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't in the problem. It was only intense on the
first day when we were starting it..... But, we were not happy that we
did not receive training. We only came to terms with that because it was
free, a gift, so we could not have asked for more.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: It only needed to be fed with cow manure to function.
Once it was fed, you just switch it on and off. If it was off, you
needed to feed it, and it starts again, and so on. Secondly, we needed
to prevent soil from collapsing into it pit. So, its maintenance is
easy; it only needs to be fed and to ensure that the pit is protected
from soil. It is only covered now because it has taken any long time
without work. It has now been 5 years without working.

**Interviewer**: Ok, I wanted us to talk about if it met your needs.
Apparently, it did not meet your needs as you didn't use it....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we had the desire to use it for cooking, but
unfortunately, we did not. It only gave us a hard time. We wanted to use
it for cooking nsima and side dish, but every time we did put a pot on
the stove, it was going off. Then, my wife would go look for firewood to
continue cooking. Then, we lost interesting after seeing the bag
deflating, and it eventually collapse to the bottom.

**Interviewer**: What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The first and main challenge is that it did not work.
The second problem was that it was supposed to be lined with a brick
wall as they said, but we failed to line it. A digester works well on
sunny days and when the pit is lined to maintain the heat. It could have
worked well, if it was lined. So because it wasn't lined there was
warmth at the top bag and coldness at the bottom of the pit, so that why
it did not work.

**Interviewer**: Who told you that it was supposed to be lined?

**Interviewee**: It was the forth people who came.

**Interviewer**: It wasn't the installers?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it wasn't the installers. The first people just
told us to dig the hole; they did not talk about lining it.

**Interviewer**: I think fourth people were from MERA.

**Interviewer**: You have said the problem started from the onset. I
want to know was the fire starting and going off at once or gradually?

**Interviewee**: It was going off gradually.

**Interviewer**: How long was it taking the gas to go stop?

**Interviewee**: It was taking a very short time to go off. It couldn't
stay long as we have stayed here; So, it was taking less than 5 minutes

**Interviewer**: How long did it work before stopping completely?

**Interviewee**: In November after the rains started, that is when it
stopped completely. There was no sign of life in November because it
cold.

**Interviewer**: And this one came in July or August... and all this
time it was going on and off, and you never used it?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: After November, did you try to feed it?

**Interviewee:** Yes, but the digester bag was the deflating more and
more. And it couldn't produce even a small flame of fire. It was only
making a snapping sound when we tried to light it up. That time it was
also releasing slurry at the digestate at the outlet as it was doing
before, and it was very disgusting.

**Interviewer**: Oh, it must have been disgusting.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but because you wanted it very bad, we did not
care about that.

**Interviewer**: How many times did you feed it after it stopped
producing flames?

**Interviewee**: I fed it 3 times, I shouldn't lie. My wife was the one
pushing me to feed it as she thought I was not putting enough manure. We
tried very hard to feed it because we really wanted to use it for
cooking one day.

**Interviewer**: Did you call the project implementers?

**Interviewee**: I was not given their phone number. Maybe they gave the
chiefs and extension workers, but as for me, I was not given.

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this before?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: It is information regarding problems common with
digesters and their related causes and solutions. What do you think
about this information and do you think it could have helped in your
case?

**Interviewee**: No, it could not have help because the digester never
worked or produced fire at all. So this information would have helped if
the digesters had worked. For example, when you have a bicycle and it
breaks down, you get the spare parts and ask if you lack information to
fix it. With the digester, everything was intact; it was only that it
wasn\'t producing fire. That's why we tried to feed it with manure but
then the bag was shrinking even more.

**Interviewer**: Today is 22 September, if the installers call you today
to ask how your digester is, what would you say? How would you describe
the current state of your digester?

**Interviewee**: First, I would tell them that it is not working.
Second, I would tell them that we removed the digester bag and covered
the hole because it was dangerous to livestock. And, I could tell them
to tell their bosses to bring solar and not biogas again because biogas
is a waste of time. It made us do a very hard job without benefit. So,
it's better to bring solar because it's user friendly and also it can be
used for lighting and cooking as well. Also, solar works even when there
is rain unlike a biogas digester. So, if they call, I could tell them
biogas is a burden, and it injured my calf. And, some people have cut
the bag, but we have not. I only hired 15 people to carry it out of the
pit. That thing is heavy.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: That time I paid them K3000 for the job, but if it was
now I would have paid K7000 or so.

**Interviewer**: I can see that you have just left the digester there,
and you are using the pipes as a clothesline. Where is the stove?

**Interviewee**: It's in the house. Let me go get it. This is it.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you are a keeper.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we have everything.

**Interviewer**: Truth talking, considering all that happened, why do
you think it did not work? How did it reach this stage?

**Interviewee**: I don't know exactly what went wrong. But it looks
like, digesters can't work in cold season, so they can't work here in
Malawi because we do have cold and rainy season. Secondly, cow manure
loses its strength fast when it's in the bag. So, cow manure is not an
effective or reliable source of energy \[feedstock\]. Thirdly, digesters
can't just work without a brick wall lining. So in my opinion, I think
solar system is better because it has no maintenance issues, and can be
use for lighting. Of course, people will try to find ways to make biogas
work or better, but whatever they may do it cannot just work in the cold
season.

**Interviewer**: Now that it's not working, how do you meet your energy
needs? You mentioned firewood and charcoal, right?

**Interviewee**: I'm using that charcoal bag. I bought it yesterday.
There I'm boiling water, so that when my wife comes from the farm, she
should bath and recuperate. I'll use that for cooking nsima, and by
Sunday, it will be finished. I bought the bag at K2500, and in two
weeks, I will use two bags. So, in a month I spent K10000.

**Interviewer**: That's a lot. Do you still use cow manure as a
repellent for mosquitoes and ticks as you mentioned. Or, what do you do
with cow manure now?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we still do that. But, some remove out of the cow
how because if we don't the cow house will be full of wet manure when it
rains. As a result, cows will have troubles in sleeping and will stand
the whole night that we feel pity.

**Interviewer**: How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They just gave me the digester and didn't tell me how
much they spent on it. I would be happy if I can be enlightened now.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) now it's K600000 or K800000. Some even go as
far as a million.

**Interviewee**: Oh, they gave us lot money.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, did you contribute anything in kind? I'm seeing
that you used you energy, cow manure, what else?

**Interviewee**: And maybe water. Plus, the money we spent on the people
who took it out......I'm sure everywhere you have gone you haven't find
one working, but maybe the bag still in the bag. I only took it out
because of the calf incidence and I keep it safe so that when the
installers when come they should find it. So I just keep it there, I
don't need to put it in the house because no one can come to steal that;
what can it be used for?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, what kind of special items that had to be
imported from another country?

**Interviewee**: I can't know. They just told me that they were
students, so I don't know if they made it themselves.

**Interviewer**: Looking back, can you say it saved you money or made
you lose money?

**Interviewee**: I was doing most of the work by myself so didn't spend
a lot. But, at that time, I hired some people to get manure for me at
Chamtutu, so I paid them K3000.

**Interviewer**: You received a biogas in 2017, you had it here, you
still have all the equipment. What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: If you get a wife and see that the marriage is not
working you divorce, and get a new wife, so I\`m going for a solar
system now.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) so your new wife should be solar?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) this one has failed. She was a bad wife! We
tried to make things, but she didn't want marriage.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) you tried to involve marriage counselors but
nothing happen!

**Interviewee**: (laughs) we want any innovation and you can see that we
are handworkers and we did put in a lot of effort to make it work, but
it just didn't work. Even tried to feed it in the cold and rainy season,
but the bag was deflating more and more. We struggled a lot!

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I don't know in other areas. But, for people of this
community, I can say it has no future. People were given the digesters
here, but no one will tell us that he is still using it or he used it.
If at least one or two people were able to use it, then you could say
the rest were careless or not committed\... No one can say everyone who
was given the digester was careless and not committed. It's just that
this thing didn't work, and I doubt if it can work with the climate here
Malawi.

**Interviewer**: My last question is, but I think you have repeatedly
answered it, if you could have designed your own waste or anything
intervention what could you have chosen instead of biogas?

**Interviewee**: If the solar panels are available, it's better to
install solar for lighting and cooking. Then, I think that way people
would benefit. But, we know that resources are difficulty to mobilize,
so the students who came here need to go back to the drawing board and
redesign the digesters. And, before handing over the digesters, they
need to train us on its operation and maintenance so that at the end we
would learn about it and get training allowance to buy few things...
Thus, if they are bringing digesters they need to take us for
training... And, the training should involve women, that's my opinion.
They need to take the women because they are the ones who spent most of
the time in the kitchen. Then, maybe we can learn from them after. So
the training should prioritize women. I'm not favoring women, but I
think everyone has his or her role, so I believe women can do this one
effectively.

**Interviewer**: That was my last question. In closing, do you have
anything to say?

**Interviewee**: Basically, it is what I have already said. First, we
need a different solution not Biogas. We want solar. If resources are
not available then they can come with biogas. But, it needs great
technical changes so that it becomes usable.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
