**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 35**

**Date: September 23, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: I don't know who brought it. I think it was a
nongovernmental organization.

**Interviewer**: Do you know the name of the organization?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten its name.

**Interviewer**: Do you remember anything about them? For example, what
they were wearing, their cars or anything?

**Interviewee**: They were not wearing something like a uniform or work
suit. It was just ordinary people in casual attire.

**Interviewer**: okay, how many people were coming?

**Interviewee**: It was more 8 people. Sometimes they were coming 3
people; the 2 people were simple men, but the third gentleman looked
like a boss and he was fond of speaking English though. He was also
speaking Chinese.

**Interviewer**: Chinese?

**Interviewee**: \[no response\]

**Interviewer**: Whom was he speaking Chinese with?

**Interviewee**: He was just uttering Chinese words.

**Interviewer**: Was he Malawian?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, no doubt. But, he seemed like he lived in China
at some point.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who funded it?

**Interviewee**: I think it was an NGO. But, the people who were coming
were just contractors. They said they were installing the digesters as a
pilot project.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee**: We built it.

**Interviewer**: How many were you?

**Interviewee**: We were 2; me and this person here.

**Interviewer:** Were you paid?

**Interviewee**: No, the project implementers asked the beneficiaries to
dig a hole, so we did. I think the hole was 3 meters deep. After that,
we built a brick wall around it.

**Interviewer**: Who did the masonry work?

**Interviewee**: It was two of us again.

**Interviewer**: How many bricks and cement did you use?

**Interviewee**: The wall was double layered so it used many bricks. I
think we used 2000 bricks.

**Interviewer**: How many bags of cement?

**Interviewee**: It was 4 bags.

**Interviewer**: How much was a bag of cement then?

**Interviewee**: I think the bag was K8000 then, because we spent K28000
on cement alone.

**Interviewer**: Eh, you mean you used 4 bags? That's enough to build a
house....

**Interviewee**: No, it was double layered and we plastered (lined) the
bottom of the hole too.

**Interviewer**: Okay, I get it. Where did you get the bricks?

**Interviewee**: We bought the bricks.

**Interviewer**: How much did you spend on bricks?

**Interviewee**: A brick was K30.

**Interviewer**: When was it built?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember.

**Interviewer:** Did they install your digested together with the other
people?

**Interviewee**: Yes.

**Interviewer**: Then it was in the 7^th^ month of 2017.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and we did all the work. The installers only came
to install the digesters.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to build it?

**Interviewee**: It took us 2 days to dig the hole, and another 4 days
to build a wall around it and plaster it too.

**Interviewer**: So it took you 6 days. What was your role? You have
said you dug the hole and plaster the hole, apart from this what else
did you do?

**Interviewee**: We were also responsible for sourcing manure. We also
hired women to collect water.

**Interviewer**: How many were they? And, how much did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: We hired 4 women to collect water during the time we
were lining it. So, for 4 days we paid each one K2500. We also hired the
same women to collect water when we were preparing the initial
feedstock, and we paid each woman K5000.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the manure?

**Interviewee**: We got it from other people.

**Interviewer**: Did you pay?

**Interviewee**: We paid K200 per wheelbarrow.

**Interviewer**: How much manure and water did you use to start it up?

**Interviewee**: We used one drum of 200 liters, if not 2 drums of 200
liters of water.

**Interviewer**: Manure?

**Interviewee**: I think it was 15 wheelbarrows of cow manure. It was a
lot!

**Interviewer**: We have a lot people in this community, so how were you
selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: We were given because we are hard workers and we are
reliable. When we are given a task, we do it with commitment and with
excellence.

**Interviewer**: Are you not bragging about yourself? Are you hard
workers?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Yeah, it is not easy for any ordinary man to
collect and prepare feedstock.

**Interviewer**: So people who were given the digesters were all hard
workers?

**Interviewee**: Yes.

**Interviewer**: Were you not given because you are a chief?

**Interviewee**: No - not because of that. They choose us because of the
things I have talked about. We have also other chiefs in the community,
which were not chosen, so it was not because of that.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, we did not know about biogas, and we were even
surprised what it was.

**Interviewer**: What surprised you? Or, why were you surprised?

**Interviewee**: We wondered how cow manure could produce gas for
cooking, and it was something that we had never heard of. We only knew
of electric stoves, but not biogas. So, when they installed it we were
very surprised to see fire.

**Interviewer**: Did it work?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it worked. And we were even able to cook on it.
But, its performance was dependent on the sun. When there was no sun, or
cloudy the bag could not inflate and produce gas. But, when the sun was
hot like this, the bag was getting completely full to the point that I
could even stand on it and the bag could not shrunk.

**Interviewer**: So, it was working when there was sunlight? When there
was no sun, it could not work?

**Interviewee**: Right! So it was working from morning up to 4 PM.

**Interviewer**: Okay, I hear that 10 beneficiaries were chosen from
Tengani. How were you selected? What was the selection process?

**Interviewee**: The people were called for a community meeting by
chiefs, so at the meeting people were briefed about the project, and
then people who were hardworking were chosen.

**Interviewer**: So it was people who chose the beneficiaries and not
chiefs?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was the people who chose the beneficiaries at
a community meeting called by the chiefs.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you must be really hardworking.

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) yes, we are.

**Interviewer**: Did you attend the meeting?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: How many people were there?

**Interviewee**: The whole community was there, and that time the
village had 700 people.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: We were so happy because we expected to stop using
firewood for cooking.... And we expected to stop damaging the
environment as well.

**Interviewer**: You do not like cooking firewood.

**Interviewee**: We feel happy because here we do not have electricity
and it is very difficult to source money to buy charcoal. But, we liked
biogas even more.

**Interviewer:** Why?

**Interviewee**: It was easy to use. It did not require going around
searching for wood, and it did not need put firewood constantly to
maintain the fire... Once biogas ignited, everything was smooth.

**Interviewer**: So you expected to cook with ease?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we expected to cook 3 times a day on it. However,
it only worked late morning and in the early afternoon hours.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what did the installers tell you to expect?

**Interviewee**: After installation, they only told us that we would be
using it for cooking. But they did not tell us the specific times we
would be using it. They also told us to feed it every morning with 2
buckets of cow manure and 3 buckets of water.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: They only told us on how to use it. But, it wasn't like
we went for a training or a seminar, everything was done on site.

**Interviewer**: How were you supposed to use it?

**Interviewee**: Can I go get that? (Goes to get a stove)

**Interviewer**: Yeah! Let me drink water, it is hot here

**Interviewee**: Yeah, this was the stove. They told us that a pipe
carrying gas from the digester is connected here. Then, if we wanted to
cook, they told us to turn this clockwise, and when we turned it gas was
coming on the stove. So, that was the training!

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you anything to do with maintenance?

**Interviewee**: No, they did not.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the reactor did you feel
you were?

**Interviewee**: We felt okay! And we used it with no issues.

**Interviewer**: You said you were chosen at a community meeting by the
people to be a beneficiary. When one is chosen, one is at liberty to
accept or not to. Why did you accept it?

**Interviewee**: We accepted it because you were chosen. When you are
chosen by people, it is disrespectful to say no. Secondly, we liked the
technology so we wanted to try it. Also, we thought we were lucky to
have it, so we could not let luck go by.

**Interviewer**: So you wanted to do try it and it was your luck?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Was it really a blessing or a curse? I mean sometimes
things look good on the outside, but when you have them, it is the
complete opposite. Were you lucky?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yes, indeed, I think we were lucky to have it.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: We used firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get wood?

**Interviewee**: We source firewood from the bushes.

**Interviewer**: Daily?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, daily.

**Interviewer**: Was it not a tough job?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it is.

**Interviewer**: Did you use charcoal that time?

**Interviewee**: No, it is only recent that we started using charcoal.
Back then, before it stopped working, we used firewood only.

**Interviewer**: What has changed now? I mean you have said before it
came you were using only firewood, but now you are using both. What has
changed basically?

**Interviewee**: It is so hard to find firewood now, so we decided to
buy a charcoal burner with the little money we had to lessen the burden.
So, when we do not have money, we go source firewood in the bushes.

**Interviewer**: How many bags of charcoal do you use in a month?

**Interviewee**: We use 3 bags.

**Interviewer**: How much is a bag of charcoal?

**Interviewee**: It is K3000

**Interviewer**: That's expensive. In some areas, a bag of charcoal is
K2500.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, if you go that far side it is K2500, but on this
side is K3000.

**Interviewer**: Some people say they prefer chips cooked on firewood
because it tastes somewhat different from chips cooked on charcoal. Did
you differentiate the food cooked on biogas from the one cooked on
charcoal or firewood in terms of taste?

**Interviewee**: Not really, but the difference has to be there since
food cooked on biogas is smoke free. The one thing with cooking on
firewood or charcoal is that it's easy to burn or over cook food because
you do not necessarily regulate the intensity of the fire like biogas.
Also, you need to be around every time when you are cooking with
firewood to maintain the fire by adding firewood.

**Interviewer**: Did you have cattle that time? Or, you were just asking
for manure from other people?

**Interviewee**: We asked when there was a deficit, for example, on the
day we started it up. But, we also had our own cows.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: We were just throwing it away.

**Interviewer**: What about using it in the farm?

**Interviewee**: Soil is fertile here, so if you apply manure you kill
the crops. I think manure contains nutrients that are not suitable for
this soil\... I believe soil is so fertile here that additional nutrient
from manure makes the nutrients in the soil to surpass its required
level thereby it kills the crops.

**Interviewer**: So you don\'t apply of any type?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How does the maize perform?

**Interviewee**: It does quite good. I think it does better than maize
applied with manure or fertilizer. So, if the rains are okay that year,
then we do have a bumper yield.

**Interviewer**: Everybody in Blantyre, Thyolo and else applies
fertilizer, so why do think your soil is fertile here? Why is it
different from the soil in Blantyre or Lilongwe? What makes your soil
fertile?

**Interviewee**: Ah, I do not know why.

**Interviewer**: Moving on, let us talk about how you started it. You
said you started it up with 15 buckets of cow new and the one drum (200
liters), if not two drums (400 liters) of water. How long did it take to
start up?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten.

**Interviewer**: So from the day you fed it with huge amounts of cow
manure and water, how long did it take you to start using it?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, if I say I remember, I will lie.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: It was working okay, and sometimes it wasn't. When
there was sunlight, we could cook a little bit.

**Interviewer**: When there was sun, how much cooking time did you get?

**Interviewee**: I remember one day I cooked beans in the morning, and
at lunch, I also cooked nsima.

**Interviewer**: That's like 2 or 3hours of cooking time.

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get when there was no
sun?

**Interviewee**: The bag was deflating.

**Interviewer**: So, you mean you could not cook when there was sun?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we couldn't cook.

**Interviewer**: You couldn't cook nsima?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it was not producing fire. When there was no sun
and we turned it on, it was producing a hissing sound, but gas couldn't
be light up.

**Interviewer**: So you were getting this sound whenever there was no
sun?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, yeah. It was like this when we had clouds, or
during sunset.

**Interviewer**: How did you use gas?

**Interviewee**: It was for cooking only.

**Interviewer**: How many people used the gas?

**Interviewee**: We were 7 people that time.

**Interviewer**: I want to be clear on how it worked after commission.
You said it worked depending on the sun, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Were you able to make tea and lunch when it was sunny?

**Interviewee**: We would make tea (boil water) and cook nsima at lunch,
or sometimes dish side of vegetables.

**Interviewer**: Evening?

**Interviewee**: No, it wasn't producing gas.

**Interviewer**: Okay, that's like 45 minutes to 1 hour and some minutes
of cooking time a day. When there was no sun, did you manage to make
tea?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: So it was heavily dependent on the sun...

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: So after all this, did you consult the installers or
the project implementers?

**Interviewee**: I'm not sure on that. I believe my father would know.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: It only needed to be fed with cow manure and water.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We used to pour manure in a bucket and add water, and
then stirred the feedstock. After that, we poured the feedstock into the
digester.

**Interviewer**: What did you use for stirring the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We used a stick.

**Interviewer**: Were you soaking cow manure to be used the following
day?

**Interviewee**: No, they told us to use fresh manure so everything was
done on the day.

**Interviewer**: Cow manure contains trash, how did you hand it?

**Interviewee**: We were simply removing the trash from the feedstock
with hands, so no trash was going in the digester.

**Interviewer**: How often did you feed you digester, and in what
quantities?

**Interviewee**: We were feeding it daily with 2 wheelbarrows of cow
manure and 3 buckets of water each of 20L capacity.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: From the borehole.

**Interviewer**: How far?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't far, maybe 300 -- 400 meters.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was I.

**Interviewer**: Who else was supporting?

**Interviewee**: It was only me.

**Interviewer**: You said you were 7 people, why were you the only
person responsible for feeding?

**Interviewee**: The others were school going children.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about the work of feeding?

**Interviewee**: It was hard work because I was doing it every day. And
before mixing feedstock, I had to source manure and water, so was tough.
I think it's tougher than sourcing wood.

**Interviewer**: Oh! So you think it's better to go search for firewood
than prepare feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Considering the way the digester worked, it was better
to source firewood than make feedstock... But, if everything worked
okay, biogas was better because it's easy to use. What put me off is the
work of feed it; it was intense.

**Interviewer**: Then why didn't you just abandon it and continue using
firewood?

**Interviewee**: No, the digester was given to us as a gift. So, if we
stopped doing the hard work of feeding the digester, it would have
broken down.

**Interviewer**: Let's suppose it wasn\'t given to you as a gift, would
you choose to feed a digester or search for fire!

**Interviewee**: I would choose biogas.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: It's fast.

**Interviewer**: But, because it didn't work as you thought, you think
it's was better to go search for firewood?

**Interviewee**: Right!

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember anything regarding maintenance. Maybe,
my father knows. But, I don't remember anything concerning that... I
think they gave us number though.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for its maintenance?

**Interviewee**: I remember one time gas connector disconnected from the
bag, so the digester bag collapsed, as there was no gas in it. So, we
got a tire rubber and sealed it. It only worked for a month.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take for this problem happened?

**Interviewee**: I can't remember.

**Interviewer**: Did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: No, it didn't. Like I said, we expected to use it in
the morning, afternoon and evening, but we couldn't. So, we were still
using firewood for cooking.

**Interviewer**: What challenges did you encounter?

**Interviewee**: It was difficult to source manure as we had small
number of cattle. We had 7cattle that time so it was hard to get gather
2 wheelbarrows of fresh manure. Thus, sometimes we had to go ask from
other people. Some people would refuse to give us manure.

**Interviewer**: Why would they refuse to give you manure?

**Interviewee**: Some people use back magic. So the ritual is that no
person should enter the animal house expect themselves. Some were
selling us: some were giving us for free.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) do people really do that? I hear it's common
to do black magic with cows?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) people do that; some people who own cows can't
let you in their cow house because of rituals.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) why is that?

**Interviewee**: It is part of protection that no thief should steal
cows. Some do it to be successful in the cow farming.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) so the main challenges I have notes are; it
was hard to find feedstock as some people would not give you; it was not
working as you wanted; and you had issues with the gas connector. Apart
from these, what other challenges did you face?

**Interviewee**: That's was all.

**Interviewer**: So in regards to malfunction, what other problems did
you face on top of the gas connector issue?

**Interviewee**: That's was the only problem.

**Interviewer**: How did this problem manifest?

**Interviewee**: When there was the sun, it was leaking gas that we
could not have gas at the stove.

**Interviewer**: So did it make a sound? Or, did you smell gas?

**Interviewee**: It was both.

**Interviewer**: So you don't how long this problem took to manifest. I
know you can't know the exact time, but did it take a month or months,
roughly?

**Interviewee**: It started small, but we didn't know what it was, and
what to do with it. Then, the leak started producing water. So, we were
surprised like where is the water coming from. Then we asked one another
if someone had poured water on it, but no one accepted. Then, the water
stopped coming out, and gas started to leak and the smell was coming out
as well. Then, we tried to seal it, but after a month, it happened
again.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to fix it again?

**Interviewee**: No, My father and I left for a tombstone unveiling
ceremony at Marka. We stayed away from a month. We came around the rainy
season, so we didn't do anything, as we were busy with farming
activities. And, we knew that we could not get gas even after fixing it
since it was the rainy season and the sun was not coming out. Then, we
just abandoned it.

**Interviewer**: How long did you use it before it stopped working?

**Interviewee**: I think 3 months, if not 2 months.

**Interviewer**: So after 3 months it stopped completely. Before that,
how was it like?

**Interviewee**: It was on and off.; sometimes it was not working
because it had a fault, but because it wasn't feed. So, if we didn't
feed it in the morning, it couldn't produce fire. If we fed it, it would
produce fire.

**Interviewer**: What caused your not to feed it sometimes to the extent
of not getting fire at all?

**Interviewee**: When I was away, no one could feed it.

**Interviewer**: So it couldn't be fed without you?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: My parents preferred to use firewood because they
thought it was involving to feed it.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever call the installers or project
implementers after any kind of fault?

**Interviewee**: I don't have that information, but my father does.

**Interviewer**: After installation, how many other times did you see
them?

**Interviewee**: No, after installation they never came.

**Interviewer**: No even once?

**Interviewee**: Let me see... Oh, they came one week after
installation. After that, they never came back again.

**Interviewer**: To give you papers?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they gave us papers, you are right.

**Interviewer**: Did you tell them that you had problems with it i.e.
you couldn't cook when there was no sun? If yes, what did they say?

**Interviewee**: I don't know because they didn't talk with me but my
father.

**Interviewer**: Do you have your father's phone? The one I got wasn't
working.

**Interviewee**: yeah, he changed his number.

**Interviewer**: Share me his number so that we can talk on some of the
questions. Have you seen something like this before?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this information and do you think
it would have helped in your case?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it could have helped.

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: Whenever we had a problem, we could have been
consulting it and act accordingly.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of your
digester today?

**Interviewee**: We have it, but it's not working?

**Interviewer**: You have the equipment?

**Interviewee**: Ah, no, some pipes dry in the ground as you saw. Also,
some people moved the pipes as was built on a path.

**Interviewer**: But the bag is still there?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: I also saw the wall you built around it is intact.

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, do you think it can work again?

**Interviewee**: I think if the installers come and rehabilitate it,
then it would work again because I think the bag is intact.

**Interviewer**: Taking all think I to consideration, how did it reach
this stage?

**Interviewee**: The main issue was the gas connector. It is what is
today because of the gas connector.

**Interviewer**: So, you think if the gas connector was strong and
durable I could have seen it working today?

**Interviewee**: If the gas connector and the pipes were more durable,
you could have seen it today.

**Interviewer**: Let suppose the pipes and the gas connector was okay,
would you have kept on feeding it regardless of the fact you were
cooking on it once a day on a good day?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we could have.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs now that it's not
working?

**Interviewee**: We use firewood and charcoal. We buy charcoal on the
side.

**Interviewer**: But, you don't buy firewood?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: I understand there are forest officials, how do you
cope?

**Interviewee**: The forest department gave us neem seeds, so we planted
them. As a result, we have our own neem trees.

**Interviewer**: Where is it now?

**Interviewee**: We have a woodlot. And some of the tree we planted for
personal use are there.

**Interviewer**: Was everyone given the seeds?

**Interviewee**: Everyone was given in this village, and that's why we
have so many trees in this community. They gave us neem trees because
it's an easy tree to plant. But, it's been a very long time. So, some
people don't have it no more.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how much did it cost?

**Interviewee**: No, I don't know.

**Interviewer**: But, whatever money was paid an NGO was responsible,
right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind? We have seen
bricks, cement uh

**Interviewee**: Cow manure and water.

**Interviewer**: You said you dug the hole with someone, like you were
two?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Does this other person belong to this family?

**Interviewee**: No, he was a hired worker.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay him?

**Interviewee**: K40000

**Interviewer**: Was that not too much in 2017?

**Interviewee**: The soil was very dry and compact.

**Interviewer**: Who built the wall around it?

**Interviewee**: I built it. The hired worker supported me by simply
handing me the mortar.

**Interviewer**: So the K40000 was for digging the hole and supporting
you in handling the mortar?

**Interviewee**: That was a different item. We paid him K5000 for that.

**Interviewer**: So, he got how much in total?

**Interviewee**: He got K45000.

**Interviewer**: Apart from this what other work was done?

**Interviewee**: No, all the hard work was done on the first day, for
example, sourcing manure and water, and making the feedstock as well as
digging the hole

**Interviewer**: What kind of special items had to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I think they told us the digester bag came from
China. They didn't tell us about the white PVC pipes for the inlet and
outlet though.

**Interviewer**: When are going towards the end. Ah, a digester releases
digestate at the outlet pipe, how was the digestate collection point
like?

**Interviewee**: We dug a big hole and plastered it with cement, so the
digestate was failing into the hole.

**Interviewer**: What were you doing with the digestate?

**Interviewee**: We used to take it to our vegetable garden as manure.

**Interviewer**: You have told me you don't apply manure to your
maize...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we don't.

**Interviewer**: But, you do apply to vegetables

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we do apply to vegetables, tomato, but not maize

**Interviewer**: Did you save money when you were using it?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: How? I thought you don't buy firewood?

**Interviewee**: Sometimes we do buy firewood when we feel like our
trees need to regenerate. And, we don't go to the mountains, so we buy
sometimes. But, this doesn't happen regularly; it\`s very rare.

**Interviewer**: Okay! What was the biggest change in your life that you
had when you had the digester?

**Interviewee**: It minimized the cutting down of branches from our
trees.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with 3 questions. What is your opinion
of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good because it's easy to use. And, it was
very handy especially after coming from the farm, as we didn't need to
search for firewood and it was also fast since fire was coming upon
ignition.

**Interviewer**: Its drawbacks?

**Interviewee**: The gas connector needs adequate care, as it doesn't
last long. Also, the pipes need proper handling.

**Interviewer**: When you saw the pipes, do you think you can find the
in the local market?

**Interviewee**: I don't know if they can be found. But, I have never
seen them anywhere else. My first time to see them was when they brought
the digester.

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas?

**Interviewee**: It's hard to answer that because our experience with
this digester was very short, so it's hard to say. But I can say it's
good because it's fast. In regards to people adopting it, I would say
it's highly unlike because most of the people who were coming to see us
using it said they couldn't manage.

**Interviewer**: What were they saying?

**Interviewee**: It was involving. The work we were doing was hard to
many. I also feel the same way though. I think it can be adoptable if it
can be feed once a week or once every month.

**Interviewer**: Last question. If you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead of
biogas?

**Interviewee**: I would be willing to work with any other intervention.

**Interviewer**: What intervention?

**Interviewee**: Any intervention?

**Interviewer**: (laughs) someone will bring a bomb, any you will accept
it because you think it's an intervention. Okay, thanks. Do you have any
last words before we end the interview?

**Interviewee**: Mine is a concern. I think for biogas to be adopted it
needs to be fed once a week or once a month, and not daily. If biogas is
like that, I don't think it can work, because I feel it was a burden for
us to concentrate on farming activities and feed it as well. So, it
needs some modification to be adoptable.

**Interviewer**: Okay, thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming too.
