**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 36**

**Date: September 23, 2022**

**Interviewer:** First question, where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten. It's been a very long time.

**Interviewer**: Yes indeed, 2017 is far.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I have forgotten.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: It was mostly two people. They were parking their car
there, and would go to the place where the digester was installed, and
then tell us one or two things.

**Interviewer**: So, it was two people?

**Interviewee**: It was a mostly two people; sometimes, they would come
three people.

**Interviewer**: Do you remember what they told you, or what they were
telling you?

**Interviewee**: I remember they told us to dig a hole, and then they
gave us the dimensions for the hole. They also told us how to make
feedstock to start up the digester. After feeding the digester, the bag
got full. Then, after some days, they came and I recall they asked us to
switch on the stove after they showed us how to. Afterwards, they took
pictures, videos, and left.

**Interviewer**: This was 2017, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that was 2017. But, after sometime, some people
came and they asked us questions regarding its functionality. We told
them that biogas is good, but our digester was going off whenever the
sun disappeared. Sometimes, it was happening whilst cooking, so we had
to start fire again on firewood. Then, they said they were going to come
with solar panels to supplement biogas. Then, they got in their cars and
picked papers for us to sign. So, we signed and since then they have
never come back.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to build?

**Interviewee**: It took about a month for everything to be done, from
the first came to the day we started it. The first week, we dug the
hole. After that, we sourced fresh cow manure and made the feedstock. I
have to tell you, mister, it was a heavywork (laughs) - to feed the bag
with manure was not easy at all.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I can imagine. Let's start with digging. How many
people from your side took part in the building process?

**Interviewee**: It was two people, my husband and one hired worker.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay him?

**Interviewee**: He charged us K3000.

**Interviewer**: Who collected water?

**Interviewee**: I did that myself with the help of my three kids.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the cow manure?

**Interviewee**: We got it from the cow house of our chief; when we went
there, he showed us fresh manure in the cow house, and we got it.

**Interviewer**: Oh, he didn't say no?

**Interviewee**: No, they knew that we wanted to use the manure for
biogas, so there wasn't any problem. So, when we got it we made
feedstock for the digester.

**Interviewer**: How much manure did you get?

**Interviewee**: We got 6 or 10 bags of cow manure, if I have forgotten.
To this, we added 12 buckets (20 liters) of water separately from the
ones we added to the cow manure for mixing.

**Interviewer**: How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: Biogas needs hard working people, so the chiefs and
community development committee saw that we are hard workers, and chose
us - I just think so. A person who is not hard working or committed
cannot manage it. It's involving. It's not easy to handle fresh manure
daily. So, I accepted it, because the project was to develop the
community. I liked it also because it presented us an opportunity of
cooking without firewood. We simply switched it on whenever we wanted to
cook. It was very easy and fast to use. And, many people were coming to
appreciate the digester .So we were simply telling them to come at lunch
when the sun was brightest, and make a cooking exhibition. It was good
and the people liked it.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: Not at all. We learned about this when the senior chief
communicated to the people that an organization was coming to install
digesters to certain individuals, and that we were beneficiaries. So, we
accepted it.

**Interviewer:** What procedures or steps did the chief take to select
the beneficiaries?

**Interviewee**: The chiefs called us for a community meeting and
briefed as about the project. The communication at the meeting was that
running a digester is very involving, so hard working and committed
people would be chosen. So, people were choosing amongst themselves who
they thought would manage it. Then, they would ask the chosen person, if
he or she was willing to accept.

**Interviewer**: How did people react? Didn\`t people feel jealousy and
bitter after not being selected?

**Interviewee**: No, it was fine.

**Interviewer**: Okay. You had the right to accept it, why did you
accept to build it here?

**Interviewee**: The people here did not know about it, so they
explained that it is used for cooking, and you don't need firewood when
you have it. They also explained that it helps people to save money
especially those that buy charcoal. Then, they told us that we would
learn more from the project implementers when they came.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: I expected it to last longer. I thought I could be
using it today. And, if it had worked longer, many people would have
adopted it here. We liked it because it was fast cook on, and it
prevented people from searching for firewood. So, it gave us rest and
peace, and we liked it a lot. It was good. And, again, I'm sure, if the
project implementers worked with us to the point where we could run it
on our own, many people would have adopted and valued it.

**Interviewer**: You mentioned that at the community meeting you were
told by the community leaders that you would learn more from the project
implementers. What did they tell you? What did they tell you to expect
from this?

**Interviewee**: They told us a lot. First, they told us that we would
use it for cooking. They also went on to say that, it's like electricity
so we would use it as a source of energy for our TVs. and charging phone
batteries. It was a lot.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: We didn't have any training.

**Interviewer**: If you didn't receive training, then how were you able
to switch it on and off?

**Interviewee**: It wasn't training, but when they came, they just told
us instructions. For example, they showed us a button for switching it
on and off. They also told us how to make feedstock. So if there was
training, maybe I have forgotten it.

**Interviewer**: No, you haven't forgotten. That was it. How did you
meet your energy needs before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: I use firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where do you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: We get it from a very far place.

**Interviewer:** How far? I mean, if you leave at 6:00 in the morning,
what time do you return?

**Interviewee:** We return around this time.

**Interviewer**: Around 2 PM?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's very far. We pass the houses you see there,
and get to the mountains. That's far.

**Interviewer**: How often do go there?

**Interviewee**: Maybe in a week we go there once because it's far. And,
when go there our legs hurt. We don't go there sick or when we don\`t
have the strength, because going there you are okay could be disastrous.
So, when we are not ready for it, we just look for small pieces of wood
around. But, we are forced to go there, when we need good firewood.

**Interviewer**: Are there forest officials there?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but it's not as if we go into the mountain to cut
trees. We just go there to pick dry wood or we get firewood around the
mountain.

**Interviewer**: Do you use charcoal?

**Interviewee**: To use charcoal it means you have money. We are poor,
so we don't use charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Do you differentiate cooking on biogas from using
firewood?

**Interviewee**: In terms of taste, there is no difference. But, when
you cook on the firewood, we sweat a lot because of the flames. While
when we cooked on biogas, we didn't sweat because flames are
concentrated on the pot. Another thing is that, biogas doesn't produce
smoke; it's clean. So, after cooking on biogas a person doesn't smell or
the clothes don't smell smoke-like.

**Interviewer**: Were you using cow manure from your cows or you were
getting manure from other people for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: We had our cows, but it wasn't enough. So, we were
getting cow manure from other people too.

**Interviewer**: How many cows did you have that time?

**Interviewee**: I had five cows.

**Interviewer**: Do you still have them? I haven't seen any.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they have gone out for grazing.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage you feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: We were just waiting for the manure to dry, and then
take it to the farm.

**Interviewer**: Okay, some people have told me that they don't use
manure

**Interviewee**: Maybe, on that side of Tengani, but here we apply
manure as fertilizer. Even agriculture workers advise us to use it. They
also educate us how to make fertilizer from manure. We make fertilizer
in two ways. First, we bury it a pit and cover it. Or, we just pile the
manure and turn it regularly for some time, and then take it to the
farm. It's only people who are lazy that don't use manure. Of course,
the soil is good, but it still needs additional fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: You said that to start it you used six bags of cow
manure and more than 12 buckets. How long did it take to start up after
feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It didn't take long to start up. After feeding the bag,
it got full, and they told us that it was enough to start it up. Then,
they assembled the pipes and stoves, and told us to switch on and it
worked.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to produce fire from the period
you fed it with the initial feedstock?

**Interviewee**: The whole thing took a month from feeding it to
starting up. And throughout this time, we were communicating and
updating them as we had their numbers, and when we finished we called
them and they came.

**Interviewer**: So, that's like you waited for 2 weeks or so, since it
took you a week or so to dig and make the initial feedstock. How did you
use gas?

**Interviewee**: I used it for cooking one.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get water?

**Interviewee**: We got it from the borehole.

**Interviewer**: How far is it?

**Interviewee**: It's far.

**Interviewer**: Like how far?

**Interviewee**: One is close to the chief's house. That's the closest.

**Interviewee**: That's like 500 - 700 meters. How many people stay
here?

**Interviewee**: 6 people.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: The digester only needed feedstock of cow manure and
water.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: First in the morning, we used to go and collect fresh
cow manure from the cow house. Then, we placed manure in a bucket and
filled it up with water, and then mix until the slurry was smooth. After
that, we used to pour it in the digester.

**Interviewer**: Nice, how did you mix it?

**Interviewee**: We used bare hands to collect, crush manure lumps and
mix the feedstock. Then, we would use a stick to mix it further. But,
most of the time we used hands because you can't collect fresh manure
without hands, so we proceeded with hands as well.

**Interviewer**: Did you feel disgusted or unhealthy?

**Interviewee**: Not at all. We were simply collecting manure; add
water, and then mix, done! Take another set, put it in a bucket and add
water, and then mix. Done! So on and so on. (In the background) \[A six
to ten years girl said she helped in feeding\]

**Interviewer**: I heard this one saying she helped preparing feedstock.
Were the kids doing that too?

**Interviewee**: Yeah! They know how to make feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Oh, they wanted it bad. How often did you feed it and
in what quantity?

**Interviewee**: If we wanted to boost it up we used to feed it with 2
buckets of cow manure and water. We used to skip a day to feed it again.

**Interviewer**: So the 2 buckets was ready prepared feedstock, not just
cow manure?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that was after mixing cow manure with water. We
used to see the thickness of slurry before stopping adding water to the
manure.

**Interviewer**: What was your feedstock like?

**Interviewee**: We didn't make it too watery; it was a little bit
thick.

**Interviewer**: Did they give you the ratio of the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: No, we were simply looking at the thickness of the
feedstock. And, after the thickness was good, we fed it in the digester.

**Interviewer**: Some people soak the manure the day before feeding the
digester. Were you doing that?

**Interviewee**: I can only imagine a person using dry manure to do
that. As for us, we used fresh cow manure throughout, so there was no
need to soak it.

**Interviewer**: So you never fed it with dry manure or do any
pre-treatment?

**Interviewee**: They told us to use fresh manure all the times, so
everything was done on the spot and no pre-treatment was required.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was a tough job especially the day we made feedstock
to start it up. On the other days, I collected manure together with the
children and my husband was preparing the feedstock itself, so it was
not that tough. After, we fed it, the digester bag was getting full and
it worked fine. But, I have to say the first day of feeding to start it
was very hectic.

**Interviewer**: Your digester had 2 big white pipes, one an inlet and
the other an outlet. How was the outlet like?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it had 2 pipe white pipes. And, I think the
outlet was more elevated than inlet.

**Interviewer**: I mean, did you dig a hole at the outlet? And, did you
get digestate at the outlet?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was making a huge boiling-like sound most of
the times it was releasing the digestate.

**Interviewer**: Did you put a bucket at the outlet? Or, you simply dug
a hole for collection of the digestate?

**Interviewee**: At the outlet pipe, we dug a hole to collect digestate.
So, when we fed the digester, the digestate was failing into the hole.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you doing with the digestate?

**Interviewee**: They told us that it could be used as fertilizer for
crops and vegetables. But, we made a very big hole, so the hole didn't
fill up to collect and use it.

**Interviewer**: Did you line the hole?

**Interviewee**: No, it was just a hole.

**Interviewer**: Wasn't it bringing mosquitoes?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't see any mosquitoes in the house. Maybe,
it didn't come because the hole was deep, and the digestate was not on
the surface or close to the surface.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: They gave us their numbers and told us to call them
whenever there was a problem, so they could come to troubleshoot and
solve the problem.

**Interviewer**: Like what problem?

**Interviewee**: Any kind of problem. For example, if it wasn't
producing gas or when there was a gas leak. So, we were supposed to call
them whenever there was a problem of any kind.

**Interviewer**: Did it ever develop a problem that you called them?

**Interviewee**: No. We never called them.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: No! Like I said, when we fed it, we couldn't use it in
the morning. We had to wait up to 10 or 11 AM, when the sun was out to
use it. Even then, when we did put a pot on the stove, it was going off
once the sun disappeared. Then, we could start looking for firewood to
start up fire and continue cooking. The next day, I would put a pot of
beans, and then the sun goes and I had to start firewood to continue
cook. Then, I was fed up, I was like what type of cooking is this, and
then I abandoned it. I stopped feeding it, and it stopped working as
well. That's how it was!

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to say this is enough?

**Interviewee**: It took me a month. So, when I saw no improvements, I
abandoned it. I was only hoping that the installers would come and fix
it. Because, at one point they told me to keep feeding it and not to
give up, because they mentioned that the digester would pick up at some
point.

**Interviewer**: So after commissioning, they came and you told the
problem?

**Interviewee**: Yeah. I told them.

**Interviewer**: What did they say and what was the end of their coming?

**Interviewee**: They told us that it needed solar panels to supplement
it, so that when there was no sunlight solar panels would boost it up to
produce energy for cooking.

**Interviewer**: So it was like they conceded that the digester could
not work on its own?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it showed that the digester could not produce
fire alone especially when there was no sun. Hence, solar panels were
required to support it.

**Interviewer**: Were you able to cook nsima without any problem?

**Interviewee**: The digester was producing fire when the sun was out.
But, once the sun disappeared, it was taking a very short time to stop
producing fire. So, it was a very discouraging. But, we would have loved
to cook on it regardless whether there was the sun or not. Also, I was
not able to use it during the late hours of the day. So, I was only able
to use it during the afternoon. And even then, it would go off while I
was cooking every time the sun disappeared. So that was the main
problem.

**Interviewer**: Was there a day you were able to cook nsima and side
dish?

**Interviewee**: Uumh, I think I managed to cook beans only a single
day. But, in most days, it was not working.

**Interviewer**: How and why do you think you were able to cook for that
long on that particular day?

**Interviewee**: That day the sun was out. It was a very sunny day. It
was very hot.

**Interviewer**: What challenges were there?

**Interviewee**: The main problem was that it was going off whilst we
were cooking. So they should put more ideas to ensure that it stops
going off whilst people are cooking. If you start cooking on the biogas,
you should finish cooking on biogas whatever you are cooking on it.

**Interviewer**: so it is like when you were cooking on it, it was
gradually going off, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah (Yeah, Children agrees too in the background)...
When the sun was out it was taking a little bit longer. But, when the
sun disappeared, it was not taking long to stop working.

**Interviewer**: Like how much time?

**Interviewee**: I think it was taking 20 minutes when the sun was out.
But, when the sun was not out, it was not long time. After a very short
time, it was starting to produce a certain sound, and then it would
eventually stop.

**Interviewer**: So you only used it for a month, then you abandoned it.
And, the time you abandoned the digester, it did not stopped producing
fire completely; it was producing very little fire, sometimes not, and
sometimes it was going off while you were cooking.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we were fed up. We couldn't imagine cooking under
those circumstances.

**Interviewer**: Did you call the project implementers?

**Interviewee**: Yes, some days after it was installed, and they came
after a week to finalize its documentation. I don't remember if it was
them or some other people who told us that the digester needed solar
panels to supplement it.

**Interviewer**: Who are these people? And what was their agenda?

**Interviewee**: I don\'t know. But, it was not the installers of the
digester. They just said they wanted to assess the digester.

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this \[sheet of
intervention\]?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: It is information regarding technical problems of
digesters and their causes and solutions. What do you think of the
information, and do you think it would have helped in your case?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, yeah, and we could have used the information. I
mean, the digester was working, so it was simple for us to look at the
information and do what the information was saying. So, I think it would
have helped because it could have assisted us to identify the problem
and fix it.

**Interviewer**: Today is 22^nd^ of September 2022. Let us suppose the
installers call you and ask about the status of the digester today, what
would you say?

**Interviewee**: I would tell them that the digester continued the way
you left it, so we stopped feeding it, and abandoned it. (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) oh

**Interviewee**: We abandoned the digester and we did not we use it
anymore. You discouraged us by not following up, so the same way you
abandoned it, we also abandoned it. Can't more say? (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: The thing you left us is a clothesline today...

**Interviewee**: (laughs heavily) Aaah

**Interviewer**: Better if you had just given us clotheslines...

**Interviewee**: (laughs heavily) the pipe was just staying in the
house, so I decided to us it as a clothesline.

**Interviewer**: Looking back, how did it reach this state? And, when
you consider all things, what caused it to reach this state?

**Interviewee**: I think it reach this stage because there was no
follow-up. And the other thing is that there was no training. They
should have told us "if you see this, do this and that". So, the
implementers should have made us learn it.... Follow up was very
important and would have prolonged its lifespan. Because with that we
could have been sharing them the problems we were facing, and they would
have addressed the issues. So, follow-ups would have help us to
communicate our problem and it could have given them an opportunity to
tell us how we were faring and that would have motivated us to work hard
and use it too. But, after installing it, they never stepped a foot on
this compound again.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think it never work from the onset? I mean,
yes, of course, training and follow up would have helped to keep it
running. But, why did you think it never start off? What went wrong? Do
you think the digesters were not durable or did the installer did
something wrong?

**Interviewee**: The digester looks durable and of high quality. But, I
just don't know how they installed it. I do not know if digesters were
made to work in the presence of the sun only. So, after this we called
them and after a week they came and explained that it needs solar panels
to supplement it. However, on my side, I did everything to make it work,
because I knew that to work it needed feeding as they said. But, I just
don't know what went wrong.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs that it is not
working? Are you still using firewood only?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Where do you get firewood now?

**Interviewee**: We get it where we used to get it before.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock now that it is not
working?

**Interviewee**: I just let it dry in the cow house, or pile it on a
heap and then use it as fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Someone told me that people burn the manure. Do you do
that?

**Interviewee**: I do that when it's excess to repel mosquitoes and
ticks, which are a nuisance to the cows.

**Interviewer**: How do you repel the mosquitoes when you do not have
excess manure?

**Interviewee**: We simply try to clean the cow house as often as we
could, but still it\`s not that effective.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. We have
about five questions to finish off. How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten.

**Interviewer**: But, they did mention the cost?

**Interviewee**: I am not sure. It's been long, plus we didn't write it
down.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: I contributed cow dung, water and labour; I spent a lot
of energy on that!

**Interviewer**: Did the digester save you any money? Oh, you mentioned
that you only use firewood, and I imagine that you don't buy.

**Interviewee**: We usually source firewood ourselves. But, sometimes
when we have money, we do buy people do sell firewood here.

**Interviewer**: How much is firewood?

**Interviewee**: Two pieces of firewood cost K150, but was K100. A
bundle is K1, 500 or K2, 000.

**Interviewer**: The time it worked, did you save money?

**Interviewee**: I did not save money, because I rarely buy firewood.
But, it somewhat reduced the time I was going to look for firewood. I
was using only firewood when it was off. So, biogas is good because you
do not need firewood. If it worked smoothly, I would not have to search
for firewood at all.

**Interviewer**: As a beneficiary and someone who has used biogas
before, what is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is good, and you would have like it to continue
working. Nevertheless, I do not know the plans of the project
implementers. But, if they come again, we need training to understand it
and use it for a long time. We want it again to see and feel its
goodness and benefits. The last time we did not really feel it\`s
benefits, so we have some unfinished business with it.

**Interviewer**: Do you think it has a future? Or, to bring it here
again is just a waste of time!

**Interviewee**: It should have a future because it is a way to go in
regards to saving the environment. I am sure, if the beneficiaries we
able to run it for long, many people would have adopted it because
people did show interest to own the digesters. People now ask what
happened, and we tell them it didn\`t work for long. And, when they see
that the people who were considered exemplary failed, they do not want
it because they feel its unmanageable (laughs). They cannot even dare to
get a biogas.

**Interviewer**: You cannot. That is like you are starting a war. You
are getting yourself in trouble. Last question, If you could have
designed your own energy or waste intervention what could you have
chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: (Solar! Child speaks in the background) Yeah, solar. I
would choose a solar system capable of producing energy for cooking.
Solar system is good because even when there is no sun it works. Solar
systems have batteries that are charged by the system itself, and the
battery can be used at night for other purpose when the sun is gone.

**Interviewer**: In closing, do you have anything to say?

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming. In addition, I would like to say we
embraced biogas digesters, but you have heard the all problems. If it is
possible, ask people back home to come with a technology to save us from
this cooking predicament.

**Interviewer**: Point taken. Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
