**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 37**

**Date: September 24, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: It is via Ecogen, which gets it from Kenya, and I
think, that is a Mexican company from Sistema.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who funded it? Did you use your own money? Or, it
is the organization?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the organization \[Gulugufe\] funded it. We are
an NGO from the Netherlands.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so as an NGO, what do you do?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we focus on coach, life coaching with people, and
we also do a lot of things on sustainability. So, we do sustainable
farming sustainable and sustainable buildings; all these buildings are
made of mad and there is no cement or anything involved. So, we train in
that -- we also train in sustainable farming, and then also coaching,
and focus in mindset change in a way of getting people to having a
sustainable future instead of, ah, family members having nothing, like
living the next generation empty handed like with the trees. So, we are
broad, we are not just about trees.

**Interviewer**: So, you are from Netherlands?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I am from Netherlands.

**Interviewer**: How long have you been here?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I came here first time in 2006 and I was here 8
years. And then, I went three years back to Netherland and now I am here
since 2017. It has been almost 13 years now, but always in Chikwawa.

**Interviewer**: Don't you find Chikwawa too hot?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it is hot. But, this year is very nice. It's not
too hot year. We have only had this two week hot. But, since the
flooding in January, Chikwawa has been cool.

**Interviewer**: Nice. When was the digester built?

**Interviewee**: It's was built about one and a half years now. Then,
after 3 or 4 months after that, we got it in use. That's probably Feb or
March 2020.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before? Did you learn about
it after Ecogen came?

**Interviewee**: No, I knew already about biogas, but the thing is that
most biogas systems, which I knew were focused on kitchen waste. And, I
don't see that kitchen has waste, so we feed our kitchen waste to
animals. So, the word waste is wrong, so I don't want to use it as
biogas. I wanted to use it as manure, but just took some time to find
the one which can also do very well with manure, so when I find that
one, that's when l started using it. But, just because I didn't want to
use kitchen waste in my digester.

**Interviewer**: So, what were you expectations?

**Interviewee**: Well, officially, it has capacity of six families and
we are also setting up a restaurant, which in a couple of weeks we want
to open up. So, the purpose was also that we could cook with a
six-family digester probably most our meals with that. So my
expectationwas very high, but it's not reaching my expectations yet. So,
I hope it's changing because I'm not using it to the full capacity. I'm
using 40kgs to 50 kgs a day and I can go up to 180 kgs that's because I
said we're not in full use, but still from 40 or 50 kgs I would have
accepted more than what it is supplying me now. So, my expectations was
a bit high than the results up to now.

**Interviewer**: What did the installers tell you to expect? What did
Ecogen tell you to expect?

**Interviewee**: They just give you their forms, what they have from
Sistema, like if you put this much in it can be for six families. So
they just to give you all the statistics, which comes with it from
Sistema. And also, that time when they installed this digester their
experience was not big enough yet. But what I did find is that they
sometimes went a bit too fast in the success, and they should have
waited a little bit. It is success not when we have a flame, but when
can use it longer and not just one flame. But, that's how it sometimes
goes.

**Interviewer**: Did you receive any training from the installers?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, just very, very basic. But, maybe it's enough and
some questions come later. Sometimes, I feel their knowledge is not bad,
but it's limited when bigger challenges come. And, with the bag we have,
which is very big, I think we were the first ones in Malawi, I could see
that they were sometimes maybe thinking too much, or thinking too easy
and trying out on our bag. So, we were a bit of an experiment at the
same time, which I can understand because we are the first ones. But,
it's getting better, yeah, they are getting better.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say they are getting better? I mean, what
can you point out and say they are getting better?

**Interviewee**: Well, because like now, for example, with the wall they
build around it, they are now doing it more, at least that's what they
tell me. But, they are making it more complete, so they have learnt, and
are adding things which before they were not doing. But, like what I
said if the challenge gets too big, then you see that they are lacking a
full understanding of how it works -- thinking outside of the box
sometimes, like I said in the beginning they put all these pipes, and
then it didn't work. Then they came again to change the allpipes that
was all on of their cost, but it was so trying out -- we were an
experiment. It didn't work so they came to do something else. But, the
thing is when you sell something, that's what I think, you have to have
enough knowledge, so your customer is happy, in one time, and then you
have small mistakes or small adjustments you can come back, but these
are big adjustments that they had to make. But, I think if they have
learned from that. And now they have new guys before he was on doing it
himself, Clement, or he was coming with his friend but not more. And
have also acknowledged that some of his guys are much better than
others. Now, he has even a Blantyre guy, so they are not coming from
Lilongwe anymore. But, it seems they following sometimes a program, when
you go outside the program with your problem then they repeat the same
answers, but they are not giving you a real answer, you get me? Like I
was explaining, I said I don't think that's the problem, and then he's
saying it's the problem. I said I think the problem is that valve has to
be moved and he says no it will work, but yes it will work but because
it's down it will give a lower supply and it's more challenging to get
more gas out. But, if it's on top, I think it will go much easier. And,
on their pictures, it's even showing like that. Then, I don't get an
answer on that he says he doesn't know. And I think the people from
Mexico or Kenya they probably know the answer. But, they still have to
learn more things and yeah, and we'll see how that goes.

**Interviewer**: So, how many people were trained? It just you, or some
other guys too?

**Interviewee**: There are a few people who know how to do it. I'm not
filing the bags, but there are people who fill up the bags. And,
sometimes they walk on it to shake it a bit and like that. And in the
kitchen, they know how to switch it on and switch off. And if there is
water log, they know how to disconnect. So, that's what they know, yeah.
And, I also explained to them how the gas is made; like that, it is made
from bacteria. But, I don't know how much is staying in people's heads.
(Laughs) Gas is gas, it doesn't matter who makes it, and I don't care. I
put manure, gas comes out, and I don't need to understand the chemical
process.

**Interviewer**: So, how was the training like? Was it basically on
theory and operation? Or, did it touch on maintenance?

**Interviewee**: I think the theory is more like in practical, so I
explained to them how it works, at the same time we doing it. And, I
think that's the same with maintenance, if it goes well it doesn't need
a lot of maintenance. It's just goes -- or is it maybe the water log. So
the water lodge in the beginning, I have to say that the water log I
found them very bad. It had water in it, it was blocked every day, so
you understand that's very not user friendly. Every day, then you had to
go in a small hole; and it's very difficult to get it the rid off to
take out the water, so doing that every day was not user-friendly. And,
I asked them to make bigger water traps like water can. But, before
that, it was like every day it was full. So, I was like if this is the
case, this is not working. So, that's also better now. And, what I also
noticed is that they don't fit it into the environment. So, there, they
made a connection in the middle of the path, and that's not user
friendly, you get me? But, I know this happens more in Malawi that it's
not always thought about. I would put it corner on the side, and they
put it in the middle of the path with a lid on. So, people in the dark
they maybe miss it and fall over it. But that has nothing to do with
biogas. That has to do with installment. So, it can be made better and
user-friendly.

**Interviewer**: You have said at first they used pipes different from
what you have now and didn't work. And, they came again with different
pipes and it worked. What was the dimension of that the pipes?

**Interviewee**: It was 32 mm and with the short distance of that
kitchen, which is 10 - 15 meters, it was fine. But, this kitchen is
maybe 20 meters so that's when the problem started. Then, they said you
have pumps, then you get pumps but the pumps don't always work as well,
or they have solar panels with it, but it's not well installed.
Sometimes, I think they were trying to do it a bit fast. So, then in the
end they chose to change to a 50 mm pipe, so that kitchen was supplied.
But, we even had a kitchen over there that is like 50 meters or
something, and even with the pump, it was too difficult to get it fixed.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before biogas?

**Interviewee**: I was using gas bottle from Afrox, LPG gas. What we do
with things here is sustainability, and that's why decided to make our
own gas because it also fits in sustainability story.

**Interviewer**: How much LPG gas were you using per month?

**Interviewee**: It would be different if we used it in the restaurant.
We would use it more. So, we used 9kg or a little bit more than that per
month - Not a lot. And, we also use wood stove for staff meals. For a
restaurant, you will need a lot more, but we haven't run a restaurant
with gas bottles. So that's what I can give you a comparison for,
unfortunately.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage the feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewer**: I mean, what you put in the reactor? Or, what you feed
the reactor with?

**Interviewer**: We put cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage cow manure before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: We used it in the gardens, but also we didn\`t have
many cows. We had only 1 or 2 cows. So, then we just added more cows to
use our own cow manure. So before, it would just go into the gardens.
Now, it still goes into the gardens but first in the digester.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning? But before
that....

**Interviewee**: It took about two months or something before it worked.
And, it was like what I said, at short distances was good, but at long
distances it was so good. But, every day we had some gas. Yet, it is not
as much as I expected. I mean, if you look at their statistics, this
thing produce more gas than in real life. But, companies always make it
better than in real life. It's many companies that do that. But, because
I haven't used it in full capacity yet, I can't say how less it. Still,
I think it is giving less than what they write down themselves. And,
maybe also it is tested in perfect conditions in Mexico or wherever they
have made it.

**Interviewer**: On paper, how much gas does it produce?

**Interviewee**: They keep it at 6 families a day. That's how they write
it. It's not in cubic meters or something like. They just say six
families can easily do this in a day. But, I'm using it at the capacity
of two families or two and a half families, and I don't believe that two
families can cook two meals with this in a day. I don't believe it --
and I'm sure it can't. That's impossible.

**Interviewer**: How much cow manure did you start it up?

**Interviewee**: At first, we had a big load in; we put 10 full bags
after we had already put water in. And then we kept feeding it everyday
with two or three buckets of fresh manure and we mixed it with water
still. So that was like maybe 30 kg a day still it was producing.
\[Now\] when we use it more we increase the feedstock as well. So if we
want more, we put more money. Otherwise, we would be wasting.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get cow manure that time?

**Interviewee**: Now, we have cows, but that time we got the manure from
the village. There's a lot of cows in Chikwawa, so if I want cow manure
I can get it from many places here.

**Interviewer**: Did you buy them?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we did.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay?

**Interviewee**: A bag of 50kg was K300 or 400. A bag here is not as
expensive as in Blantyre, were you pay K2000 or K3000\... There are no
customers here, so they sell something or they sell nothing. And, in
most time they don't charge you the manure, but for the labour of
loading. So, Malawians get it for free because they fill it up
themselves. But, the bags don't get full, maybe the go ¾ because the bag
is very hard to carry when it's full.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: What do you mean?

**Interviewer**: What is required for it to function?

**Interviewee**: We mix cow and water to a certain ratio. I have
forgotten but the people who feed it knows that. So, with that, the gas
comes out, and if there is a problem like a water log or something, we
get it out. So, it's about feeding it everyday.

**Interviewer**: How do you exactly fix the water log problem?

**Interviewee**: It's a clear pipe going down, so because water is
heavier than gas it accumulates there. So, to deal with it we open the
rid and get the water out, and cover it again. So, gas stay up the
water, because that\`s what gas likes to do -- stay up.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how do you prepare the feedstock exactly? Do
you have a mixer, hand or something?

**Interviewee**: We have a wooden stir, which our people made themselves
and the use that for mixing the feedstock. So, when they are mixing it,
and they also take out some rubbish..

**Interviewer**: How many people are responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: We have two.

**Interviewer**: Did they go for training too?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I explained to them. So, most of the time one of
them is available. They work in shift like manner. And, it's basically
the same people who look after the cows that feed it. Then, we have
people from the kitchen that uses it, and if there is water log, they
fix it. So, it's like different groups of people doing different things
on it. So, that\`s how it works in practice. And, then there still
people who know much about it, but don't do much with it. They are only
needed when there is a problem.

**Interviewer**: What are the maintenance requirements? And, who is
responsible for maintenance?

**Interviewee**: Most of the maintenance, we do ourselves. But, if there
is a big problem, like when gas was not coming I called Ecogen, or when
it\`s twisted. So, Ecogen is doing it because I think they have the
expertise. But, it's what I said it's not always like that. So,
sometimes I feel they come for nothing, and are not add anything to our
solution. But, yeah, that happens (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) is it meeting your needs?

**Interviewee**: Not as I expected. But, I hope it will still get
better, and also if we can come to a solution on the position of gas
valve, then I hope it can still do better. It's nice, but it's doing
less than what's on paper. The paper looks better than the reality. But,
it works. It\`s not like it doesn't work.

**Interviewer**: Did you communicate with Ecogen regarding this? And, if
you do what did they say?

**Interviewee**: I spoke with them to tell them that it\'s not
performing well yet. But, it also has different reason, and also I
haven't used it full capacity like I said. So, that's the thing, which
is not there yet. So, I haven't really confronted them because I don't
have the 100% facts when it's in full capacity. Because, I think that's
when it becomes a fair thing. But, I\'m expecting that if I use it in a
low capacity, I can like a bit equally divide. So, if you can put 180 kg
and you put 45 or 50 kg in, then I can at least expect that maybe, if it
were six people then at least I would say 2 families should use it. But,
that's not what it is, so we have the future is going to bring. Then, I
heard your experiences I can say Ecogen is way much better than the
others. But, even they still have to learn. But, Clement is a guy who
studied economics, and he is learning on the job. So you can say he's a
salesman, but not the technical guy. But, he's getting them around it, I
think his company is growing and he is more people around him. So, I
hope he can find the right people.

**Interviewer**: You have been with it for more than a year now, what
challenges have you faced?

**Interviewee**: The water logs, the wrong pipes, but that one had to do
with the knowledge on their side. And, now I'm facing that it is still
twisted, so I don't know how it can work with that. So, because of these
challenge I can't say there has been a time it has been fully
functioning well for more than three weeks. There has always been
something that had to be changed or adjusted, or something to learn. Now
that we have changed everything, we even ourselves we disconnected a
house \[House 50 meters away from the digester\] there because they
couldn't find a solution to that. So, we have also made our own
adjustments, because they kept trying but we already realized that they
also don't know what they are doing. And, in continuing using as an
experiment, I don't believe that's the way forward because we want to
use it. So that's also, why we make our own adjustments, which they know
about.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you always communicate?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, yeah, and when they came they saw that too. So,
that's also there learning process, but how long can you experiment. Of
course, he was charging me low prices for that, and sometimes coming for
free. It's only lately that he has started charging. So, that's so nice
of him. But, they made couplings, they just pushed an STP coupling in a
50 mm pipe, I don't know if you know STP? Like they connected a female
coupling, they forced it and made the 50 mm bigger and they forced it in
their and put a lot of rubber strips -- you can't do that. So, we were
losing all the time gas and we didn't know where it was, till we dug it
up, and we were like look at what they've done, and nobody knows who has
done it. But, it's one of their guys. But, also things like that, it's
unprofessional because of a lack of knowledge. Of course, they have
learned, and I hope they will use the experience here with new
customers' right.

**Interviewer**: I want to know when did you start getting the
waterclogs, and how did you know it?

**Interviewee**: Because there was no gas coming. So, then you start
checking the water log and you find out that it's everyday. And, also in
the beginning, they also put water logs not at the lowest places, but
also at places that was not logical. So, those water logs were not
working, and then there was just somewhere the pipe was lower and that's
where water was staying because water stays in the lowest of places,
which means they didn't use the level when installing it. But, like I
have said, it's a learning thing and they didn't think about it. The
problem is that they have experimented it for a long time here. So, for
water log you just find out that gas is not coming and you just check,
and if you see water you just take it out, and it works right away.

**Interviewer**: You said the problem of water log was happening on a
daily basic, how did you manage to get rid of it once and for all?

**Interviewee**: We just added water logs along the pipes, and then we
put the new pipes \[50 mm in a leveled manner. And the problem was also
sometimes that the valve was touching the water that was creating more
water \["madzi"\], I don't know who is listening to this, which was
going into the pipes. So, it's those things especially adding more water
logs. The first time they added 2 or 3 water valves \[water traps\] I
don't know water you call it, and there was a ball in there. When there
is gas it pushes the ball down, and when there is no gas the ball goes
up. But, the problem was that it was always down, and if you want to get
the water out you really had to hit it hard. So, we took out those balls
because it was not functioning well, and I didn\'t know how to make it
function well. But, I assume that a manufacturer will say it should work
with that ball, but I found the ball very annoying.

**Interviewer**: When you have a problem and call Ecogen, what's their
response like? Do they come on time?

**Interviewee**: No, if I call, it takes sometimes like 2 weeks. But, I
do think they have an office in Blantyre now that means they won't be
taking long maybe a few days. But when they were in Lilongwe, they would
take two or three weeks, and I could not do anything. So, that's was
long time and I assume it's a solved now with Blantyre office.

**Interviewer**: How many times have they come back?

**Interviewee**: I think it's 7 to 10 times in two years. And, sometimes
I had to wait for a few weeks or a month. \[Wife speaks and thinks it's
less -- I don't think they came that many times\] For the record, my
wife thinks it is less. So, they came back a little bit less than that.
But, I'm convinced it's that. And, I think because sometimes it took
them long to come, and that's why I have a feeling that they came that
often.

**Interviewer**: The challenges, I have noted are water log, and not
working at 50 meters distances. Apart from the two, what other challenge
have you encountered?

**Interviewee**: No. Now, we have restarted again it. And now we have to
see how we can solve that valve \[valve close to the digester bag\], but
we have been cooking on it this week. It seems it is fine, so we just
have to experiment this in the next coming weeks to see if we can manage
longer three weeks without issues. But, another challenge is that when
it goes wrong you have to wait for another one month, so I think that's
why many have failed to use it for long like you have said. So, I think
they need to teach their customers more than that they are teaching them
now, because now they have to come quite often. If there is any problem,
they have to come and solve the issue. So they need to explain more, so
that the customers can solve most of the issue themselves. The only
thing is do they know everything. Like the I said, this last person he
sounds more knowledgeable when he speaks, but the words he is saying I
don't get the feeling that he is. I think he\'s also learning, and he
knows standard things and solutions, but not outside that. But, I don't
know maybe because of the digester is big, so also it has big problems.
That\`s possible. In Dutch, we would say every customer has his own
challenges. So, you can't exactly copy everything the same, because
everybody has his own needs and demands. So, I think they have to make
it more customer focus, and not believe that every customer is the same.
If you have one person, one family, I think you can do almost everywhere
the same. But, when you go bigger, you probably need to adjust a lot
more to customer needs. And, maybe even teach more. But I'm thinking out
loud now (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) But there is no harm. How would you describe
the current state of your digester?

**Interviewee**: Because, it's twisted it's not optimal. But, I do
believe it can become like that even without getting it straight. But,
what I said then the adjustment has to be made, so how it is now it's
not the best. But, it depends on Ecogen to come up with a solution, or
then I may have to find a solution myself or your colleague from Uganda,
maybe he can give me solutions. And, I have emailed manufacturer from
Mexico, because I believe they can give me a clear answer because they
are the manufacturers. So, the manufacturer always knows more than the
dealer knows, and can offer more solutions. Ecogen is just a dealer, so
they may not know more about it than the manufacturers. So, that's why I
emailed them, but I haven't got any response yet.

**Interviewer**: When did you email them?

**Interviewee**: I emailed them on Monday, which is about that valve.
Why is the valve on your pictures on the middle, and why it supplied
when it's down? And, maybe in Mexico or in Kenya it's on top.

**Interviewer**: When you say it's twisted, what do you mean? What
should I see?

**Interviewee**: It's like this; one side is higher than the other is
which means the bag is not on the middle. That's what I mean with
twisted; it should be level, but it is not leveled. Maybe, I should use
the word leveled, it\`s much easier.. It's not leveled, but it should be
leveled, and that one has to do with their installation. They did it
wrong. But the thing is it is difficult because when it's empty failed
it's folded, and even when you start feeding it the top stays in, and it
gets better when gas comes in the end after the outlets are full.
Because it the beginning gas can go out via the inlet and outlet. But as
soon as it closes with water, then gas can't go anywhere and that's when
the bag starts to be pushed up, and that's when you see that it is not
leveled. And, that\`s when you have filled up the whole bag with 15,000
liters. So, they must know a way that when they put it, they have to
make sure it's 100% leveled. The probably have to push up the corners,
and I probably know that is what they said and they even did it here.
They blew it up with air, that's when they put it in, and that's what
surprises me there. They blew it up and it ended up not leveled. But,
they said the time they came to empty my digester bag, it was their
second time to do it, and they told me you can't just do it with a pump,
but it's not that easy. The slurry is difficult to pump, and they don't
have a pump, which can pump it. But, they should have. I can understand
though, it's a new thing. I also tried here with a water pump, but it
was difficult to get the slurry which settle at the bottom. So, they
should get a special pump from South Africa, Mexico or Kenya that can
pump the thick slurry.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: I bought it at K1.5 million. And, I think there was a
little bit of discount on it because I was one of the first ones.

**Interviewer**: Did you pay at once or in installments?

**Interviewee**: That's a good question. I think I might have had short
installments. I think, I paid it in just weeks, not in months. So, it
was short.

**Interviewer**: How many people did the hole?

**Interviewee**: I don't know how many exactly. But, I think they were
three or four people in less than one day, and it depends on the soil
and season.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: I think I paid them K15000 or K20000 altogether. But
that's just a rough guess.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay for masonry work?

**Interviewee**: I think I paid the K25000 and K30000.

**Interviewer**: How many bricks?

**Interviewee**: Maximum 3000 bricks. The bag is 8 by 2.5 meters, I
think.

**Interviewer**: How many bags of cement?

**Interviewee**: I would say maybe 4 or 5 bags, because it's just a
bricks and a carpet cloth to protect it. There is no plaster.

**Interviewer**: How much is that?

**Interviewee**: That one is included in the K 1.5 million. They
supplied it together with the bag.

**Interviewer**: Since you started using the digester, have you saved
any money? Or, are you saving?

**Interviewee**: No, because it has not been fully functioning. But
otherwise, I will. Now because we have been so long in the experimenting
phase, I hope to get out of that and then we will save money. But, up to
now, we haven't gotten out of the experimenting phase. While in the
beginning, I was paying for most of it, now they always ask me money for
transport and all that.

**Interviewer**: Honestly, do you think you are going to get out of this
experimenting phase?

**Interviewee**: I think so. Also what I have to say is, if you have to
buy manure, I don't think you can save money. I think if you compare a
person who is buying cow manure to use biogas with a person using LPG
gas, then I thinks it's hard to say biogas is cheaper. I think you can
only save money, if you use your own feedstock. Thus, if you don't have
feedstock, I think LPG gas is...

**Interviewer**: is better.

**Interviewer**: Let's say it is the same.

**Interviewer**: I thought you were going to say LPG gas is cheaper and
better.

**Interviewee**: Maybe it's really better because LPG gas is not really
expensive in Malawi. But, I think people think it is. In other
countries, it's not any cheaper, and it's cheaper in place where the gas
is actually extracted.

**Interviewer**: What is the biggest change in your life now that you
have a digester?

**Interviewee**: The change is not big yet now, because of these
problems. But, I hope in it. I believe if we can get out of this
experiment phase and really get it to work. So, within one year if we
are saying the same, then we can say this is too difficult -- and then
I'll say it produces gas but not as it promises. But, compared to the
ones you visited, this is better. And, to us we are for biogas because
it's sustainable, but most people in would consider the monetary aspect
of it, and use LPG gas. And, also because you only need to pay in a
month once, they would choose LPG gas. People would also choose LPG gas
because it's not labor intensive. You only need to go the once in a
month to refill it.

**Interviewer**: I'm remaining with three questions, what is your
opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: It is a good thing because I believe we have to create
sustainable products, and LPG gas isn't. And also, we need alternatives
to use of firewood in Malawi, and I see it that it is attainable because
we have a lot of manure especially in certain areas like Chikwawa,
Nsanje. So, this is a good alternative, but it must improve. And, I
honestly do believe that if we would say, it's the Mexican company who
produced this and are selling it, I believe if they do it themselves and
that's what they also do, I think it works really great. But, to let it
work everywhere great, I think that's the challenge. So, if that can be
solved, like now that I feel that I'm in experiment, so if they quality
it in the application can improve, then there is a big future. But
problem is that people look at the wallet and that's why you need
quality to convince people. But, now people are just saying it's
sustainable, but in the end people look at the wallet. Even now though
we don't have the trees, but still you can buy sustainable charcoal from
licensed sellers or from illegal local ones and people choose illegal
charcoal because it's cheaper. They know that there are no trees, but
they would buy the local ones. So it's the same with biogas, if LPG gas
is cheap and easy, they will go for the LPG gas, and not for the
sustainable one.

**Interviewer**: So you think it's a problem with Malawians that they
don't think about sustainability?

**Interviewee**: No, it's also in other countries. But, I think a
shortage of knowledge, and seriousness. For example, the stories you
have shared with the other biogas installers, the company involved was
more focused on selling their products than having good results. So,
it's more of an earning thing than that passion. They seem not to care
about the results and that not about Malawi - it's everywhere. So, I
guess if we start caring about the results, things will go well, and if
we give up, we will fail. So, when we think about the giving up it's
about both the companies and the farmers. I think the farmers can also
try harder. I\'m always trying hard to call Ecogen. But, are the other
farmers doing the same? So, it's about motivation and seriousness. Are
people serious? Do people really want it or they want it easy? For
example, we do it because we want sustainable solution, and if that's
your focus, then you have to do your best to get it done.

**Interviewer**: Five years from now, where do you see biogas in Malawi?
Or, do you see yourself in a better position one year or so years from
now?

**Interviewee**: That\`s a difficult question. Yes, I hope. If solution
can come for the problems we have, then I\`m sure we will be in a better
position. I can have influence on it, but then I have to it myself and
I'm not an expert of this. So, I have to start learning things about it
myself, but I hope that Ecogen can improve their problem solving
capacity, so they can solve problems that are not normal, and then there
is hope. And, let's hope people become serious about it. So, in 5 years,
it depends on companies and the users, and I believe that for companies
like Ecogen, they can reach there. I see that Clement is trying really
hard to make it a good company, and he wants to do good service and
assist. I think what you have said about the other installers that would
not happen with Clement. He is wants the product to succeed and he wants
to succeed too. If all companies were like that, it can go two ways.
Because I know Malawians who are focused and I also know who are not, so
if the other group change and commit themselves, then it has a future.
And, commitment can come naturally because trees are running out, and
when people have to survive, you see that motivation gets bigger. And
it's not as if we can move to LPG gas because Afrox cannot grow so fast
to supply all Malawi. Then, the other alternative is electricity, and
it's the same thing ESCOM is not going to change so fast. So it's
difficult to give you a straight answer, but it will depend on how
things will develop in Malawi in the next coming year. And, if
commitment and seriousness stays like this, then I don't see that it has
a future. And, other companies have to come up because one company is
not enough. Of course, he wants to be the only person, but then it's
difficult for biogas in general to progress -- and competition is good.

**Interviewer**: If you could have designed your own waste or energy
intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I would have chosen the same bag, but I would the
outlet on top. At some place, I would use better quality pipes. And, I
would have designed it different -- I would have made a design. I think
they just came without a design. They just looked at place they would
place the bag and pipes; connect pipes, so that is why the pipes were
not leveled like that. So, I would have a better plan to make sure it
works. So, like I said they were learning. For example, I would not have
used the plastic basins because we all know what happens to plastic when
it stays for long on the sun -- it is fine now, but it can\`t last 10
years. So, quality can be better. The bag is of high quality, but the
other things the quality has to be better, and especially with UV, so
it\'s should be more resistance to UV, and PVC is not a strong material
-- the PVC pipes that are here cannot stand the sun; some of the things
they have are not from Kenya, it's from in Malawi. So, maybe I think
they should not prioritize price more than quality. In Netherlands, we
had EPDM, it's also plastic but it's stronger and it's 3 times more
expensive than PCV. PCV gives you 10 years, while EPDM gives you 40
years. So, long term EPDM \[Ethylene Propylene Diene Rubber\] is
cheaper, and I don't think you can find it here. And, this company
supplies South America, India, Africa and Asia, and you can see they are
not in countries where people have the highest income.

**Interviewer**: In closing, do you have anything to say.

**Interviewee**: Thank you for this interview. I hope it works. And, I
hope it will be communicated should to the companies involved, so that
companies here should learn from it. And, who knows, it may improve
usage of biogas in Malawi, even though part of is not a very good
example, what I have heard from you. So those people have probably lost
it, and they don't believe it anymore, which is really sad. So, I hope
more big companies with good business model come, so we will see. A lot
of words.

**Interviewer**: How big is your digester?

**Interviewee**: It's Sistema 20, so it's 8 by 2.5 meters. And on the
website, you can find more.

**Interviewer**: Okay, thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
