**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 38**

**Date: September 24, 2022**

**Interviewer**: There did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: The people that came mentioned that they came from
Blantyre.

**Interviewer**: What was the name of the organization?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us.

**Interviewer**: When I came here, I told you I'm coming from Poly. Are
you sure, they didn't tell you who they were, and where they came from?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they didn't mention that.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you ask?

**Interviewee**: Uh, they did things in a hurry, and they weren't
organized.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how many people from the installation company
came?

**Interviewee**: It was three people.

**Interviewer**: Who founded this?

**Interviewee**: They didn't explain that to us.

**Interviewer**: I think it came from UNDP.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it could be.

**Interviewer**: When was it built?

**Interviewee**: It was in 2017

**Interviewer**: What month was that?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten the month.

**Interviewer**: Was your digester commissioned together with the other
beneficiaries?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was the same month: the digesters were
installed here in Mtolongo and Kachere at the same time.

**Interviewer**: I think in Kachere it was in July or August.

**Interviewee**: We did things at the same time; we sourced and prepared
feedstock at the same time.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what was your role?

**Interviewee**: I was a chair of the beneficiaries here.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice! Therefore, you supervised the other
beneficiaries.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was there leader.

**Interviewer**: Apart from that, what was your other role? For example,
you have told me you were responsible for sourcing and preparing
feedstock. Apart from this, else did you get involved in?

**Interviewee**: I dug the hole, and I supported in placing the reactor
inside the hole. After that, I collected water 3 drums (200Liters) of
water, which was added to the manure. Then, I was responsible for mixing
the feedstock that we did put in the reactor.

**Interviewer**: How many people dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: I did it myself.

**Interviewer**: It must be some work, I can imagine!

**Interviewee**: Yeah, everything was done in haste. I dug the hole in
one day.

**Interviewer**: How many people were involved in collecting and
preparing feedstock?

**Interviewee**: That was a tough job. I remember we were stacking fresh
cow manure in sack bags, and then transporting it in a wheelbarrow or on
a bicycle because we got the manure from people within the community.

**Interviewer**: Like how far from your home?

**Interviewee**: Some were a bit closer and others were far.

**Interviewer**: Did you collect some from your cow house?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: How many bags did you collect?

**Interviewee**: It was more than 15 bags.

**Interviewer**: Did you do this alone? Or, some people wear helping
you?

**Interviewee**: I did this with my wife and children.

**Interviewer**: Like how many people?

**Interviewee**: Four people.

**Interviewer**: How was it like you getting cow dung from other people?

**Interviewee**: The people here are not stingy when it comes to sharing
cow manure.

**Interviewer**: I have heard some people just don't allow people to
enter their cow houses...

**Interviewee**: Yes, it\'s true. Some people do not allow a stranger to
go into the cows houses. If anything, they just go there themselves and
give you the manure. Nevertheless, it's not the same.

**Interviewer**: Why do people deny other people to access their cow
houses?

**Interviewee**: It is because traditional things.

**Interviewer**: Why do they do that, for security reasons?

**Interviewee**: Aah, it's simply because of meaningless beliefs.

**Interviewer**: How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: Chief \[name redacted\] chose me because he had faith
in us that we could manage to do the hard work of feeding it -- it
wasn't an easy job, so others couldn't have managed. I'm so dedicated
and that's why he decided to choose me.

**Interviewer**: Are you dedicated?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and even the installers were surprised by how
fast I executed the job, and they were so impressed with the work.

**Interviewer**: Did you know anything about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't know anything about biogas. I knew about
biogas when I was chosen, and then briefed about requirements and its
use it by the installers on the

**Interviewer**: You have told me the chief selected you. How did it all
happen? In some areas, for example, in the Kachere, it was the community
people who chose the beneficiary at a community meeting called by the
chiefs. What was the selection process say?

**Interviewee**: It's the same here. We were called for a community
meeting by the chief. Then, he told the people that five people would be
chosen as beneficiaries of biogas. So, at the end, I was chosen together
with other people, in front of people of the community.

**Interviewer**: So who made the choice? Was it the people or the chief?

**Interviewee**: In this village, we have a chief who is under a senior
chief. So, our chief was asked by the senior chief to choose a
trustworthy and hardworking person. The same happened with the other
beneficiaries. After the beneficiaries were chosen, then the senior
chief decided that among the beneficiaries, there should be a leader,
and then he chose me as chairperson.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: My expectation was that the work I did was going to
reap fruits. For example, I would be able to use the digester for
cooking. However, after a short time, I realize that we had wasted the
energy for nothing. I gained nothing from it, and I lost a lot. I'm
saying this because after the installation of the digesters, our names
were not included in any other project. They said that the digester were
going to last f long and we were going to benefit from them for a very
long time, so it was good for others to get other the things too. Sadly,
the digesters never worked, and we gained nothing at all.... We were
only involved in hard work, but without reward.

**Interviewer**: Which projects were you sidelined from?

**Interviewee**: For example, people received food packages, money and
other assorted items when there was hunger, but that time our names were
not considered because they said we had already benefited from biogas.

**Interviewer**: Saying you had benefited from biogas....

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: But, you didn't get anything from it.

**Interviewee**: You see!

**Interviewer**: It was tough. What did the installers tell you to
expect from this?

**Interviewee**: The chiefs told us that before installation we would go
for training to learn about the digester, for example, feedstock
preparation and all that. But, after a week or so, we saw the installers
coming to tell us how we should dig holes and that. When we asked to
them about the training, they said we would go for training at some
point, but we never went for training.

**Interviewer**: So you dug the hole, and they were like you would go
for training after everything, but you didn't go.

**Interviewee**: yeah, and our Senior Chief was surprised as he was also
told that we would go for training before installation. They even told
him that we would install the digester according to the training. So,
when we started the work the chief didn't do anything, he just let
things go.

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, why do you think the training never
happened?

**Interviewee**: I think someone took out the training component for his
gain.

**Interviewer**: Okay, okay, I think you have partly, if not fully
answered my question. My next question was going to come regardless.
What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: We did not receive any type of training.

**Interviewer**: If you did not receive any type of training, then how
were you able to switch it on?

**Interviewee**: After feeding it with the initial feedstock, they came
to commission it. When they came, they asked for matchstick and we gave
them, and then they lighted the fire. It produced gas, but it was for a
very short that you couldn\'t cook anything on.

**Interviewer**: So what did you learn? Did they tell you how to make
feedstock?

**Interviewee**: No, there wasn't any training on that. They just the
said take manure and mix with water. That was all.

**Interviewer**: So there was nothing at all

**Interviewee**: There was no training at all. But, in the beginning,
they said we would go for training first. Then after that, we would dig
a hole, and at the training you would learn how dig a hole. They also
said we would learn how to make feedstock, like what's the right ratio
for mixing feedstock and all that, but that never happened.

**Interviewer**: So, after installation and commissioning of the
digester you did not received training. How prepared to run or operate
the reactor did you feel you were?

**Interviewee**: They told us we could manage to use it with the
information we received. But then how could we use a thing that didn't
work. So, we just abandoned it. Then, they came after some time.

**Interviewer**: Like after how long?

**Interviewee**: I think it was after a month. They came late at 6:45PM
this other day saying they weren't sitting down, and that I should come
with them to their car. In the car, they had forms, and they took the
four forms saying I was supposed to sign. I asked them what I was I
signing for. They responded that their big bosses sent them, it was
urgent, and that's why they even came late. Then, I suggested that we
should go to the chief, but they said no because they had already been
there. Then, I said okay and signed. Before they went, they just said
they were going to bring solar panels.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that was after you told them that the digesters
were not working?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and that's when they suggested that they should
bring solar panels.

**Interviewer**: so, it was like the admitted that they had failed and
the solution was to bring solar panels?

**Interviewee**: Yeah (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) that was tough

**Interviewee**: (laughs) very tough indeed!

**Interviewer**: Do you have papers?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't leave me any paper. They took all four
papers I signed.

**Interviewer**: Really?

**Interviewee**: I mean it!

**Interviewer**: Let's go back to the community meeting where you were
selected as a beneficiary. You had the right to say no. I mean I've seen
people selected in such circumstances, and saying no for reasons best
know to themselves. Why didn't you say no? I mean, why did you accept it
to be built here?

**Interviewee**: Yes, of course, people do say no sometimes when they
are chosen to get something. I didn't say no because I found it very
useful and beneficial. My wife was even happy because she thought she
would no longer go to search for firewood or charcoal. Sure, it's a good
thing.

**Interviewer**: How useful and beneficial was it going to be for you?

**Interviewee**: It was all about cooking; I thought with the digester,
I would be able to cook everything whether it is nsima, side dish, and
warm water for bathing, and all that.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: I was using firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Where do you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: I get it at a very far place.

**Interviewer**: What is it?

**Interviewee**: It's more like a bush land.

**Interviewer**: What challenges do you face there? Do forest officers
not protect it?

**Interviewee**: No, where we get wood is not protected. But, if we
travel a little bit further to get firewood that's where we meet forest
officials.

**Interviewer**: If you go at 6:00 in the morning, what time do return
home?

**Interviewee**: If we go at 6:00 in the morning, we come back at
11:00AM

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's some distant. How much is a bag of charcoal?

**Interviewee**: It's K3000

**Interviewer**: How many bags of charcoal did you use in a month?

**Interviewee**: We used two bags.

**Interviewer**: That's like K6000 a month. To run a digester, you to
need cows, did you have the cow that time?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: So all the cow menu you are using was from other
people. Did you pay for the manure? Or, was it for free?

**Interviewee**: Some people were selling me; some good-hearted people
were giving me for free.

**Interviewer**: How much was a bag of manure?

**Interviewee**: Some were selling at K500, and others were selling at
K1000.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: It didn't work at all\... To tell you the truth, I
didn't use it. If I had used it to cook anything, I would have told
you... Yes, of course, it produced little fire but it wasn't enough to
cooking anything at all.

**Interviewer**: From the very first day?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: Some have told me that they cooked nsima once, but you
didn't?

**Interviewee**: To say someone cooked nsima on it here is a lie. No one
here ever cooked nsima on it. If people here told you that they used it
for nsima on it, they are lying to you. No one ever used it even for
boiling water. No one ever used it for cooking. We never used it here! I
went to ever house to see how everyone was faring, but I didn't see
digester working.

**Interviewer**: When the installers came, they said you would use the
digesters for cooking. So when that happened, what did they say? What
did you say?

**Interviewee**: I told them that you have seen that it's not working,
so how are you going to help us. They said we should not worry because
they would come with a different solution. Then, after some days, that's
when they came with the papers. Then, I asked them then why they were
forcing me to sign papers when the thing was not working. They just said
I should not worry, and they would bring solar panels. Then I said okay
and signed the papers. Since then they have never come here and haven't
brought the solar system.

**Interviewer**: So you thought it wasn't worth signing the papers?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and for me I had problems with signing the
papers, and I even told them that signing the papers was dubious, and it
was like making fools of us. I did not hide any words from them.

**Interviewer**: What did they say?

**Interviewee**: They didn't say anything. They don't like dealing with
people who are knowledgeable.

**Interviewer**: That's something else. How many people did you stay
here that time?

**Interviewee**: We were 8 people.

**Interviewer**: So on the first day, it didn\`t work? How was the
second and third day like?

**Interviewee**: It was like the first day nothing changed. Moreover,
the first day was better because if I light up the burners with
matchstick, it was producing flame that would not stay for a minute or
so. However, on the second day onwards, it wasn't producing fire at all
when lit up. It was zero. Pure zero.

**Interviewer**: Did you feed it after? If yes, how many times?

**Interviewee**: Of course, we fed it for two days, and then we gave up.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They acknowledged that the digester was producing very
like fire. They said to make it work it would need solar panels to boost
it up.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) oh

**Interviewee**: The installers were crooks. They weren't here to
install the digester, but to fill their stomachs and that's why there
was no order.

**Interviewer**: So to make it work, I imagine you needed cow manure
together with the so-called solar panels. What else was required?

**Interviewee**: We only needed to mix cow manure with water, and then
stir the mixture until the feedstock was somewhat thick. In the process,
we were advised to remove trash to avoid blockages.

**Interviewer**: How much did you feed it, and how often?

**Interviewee**: I was collecting one bag (50kgs) of manure. Then, I was
removing trash from the manure whilst mixing feedstock until the
feedstock was thick and smooth.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add?

**Interviewee**: I was adding 2 buckets (20 liters) of water to each one
bag, and then mix thoroughly until suitable slurry.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock? I mean, did you use
a mixer or something?

**Interviewee**: I was mixing the feedstock using hands without any
protection in order to break lumps and remove trash until the slurry was
suitable... They lied to us that they would give us gloves (laugh)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Oh, they lied to you that they were going to
give you gloves....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they also lied to us that they would supply us
with work suits. And, after those broken promises, I had a feeling that
things would not end well.

**Interviewer**: Didn't you feel that handling cow manure with bare
hands was risky to your healthy?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but we felt like they forced us to work without
protection. I mean, they said they would provide gloves but didn't.
Still, they were asking us to work, so could we have said no?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you still had to work. I mean, if you didn't
work, it would have seemed as if you were unwilling to get the digester.
Where did you say you used to get cow manure?

**Interviewee**: That side.

**Interviewer**: How far is it from here?

**Interviewee**: It's relative far.

**Interviewer**: If you walk or use a bicycle, how long would it take
you?

**Interviewee**: It was taking 30 minutes to go and return on a bicycle.

**Interviewer**: This is like an hour walk. Who is responsible for
feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was responsible.

**Interviewer**: Alone?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: You mean no one was supporting you in any way?

**Interviewee**: The women were supporting me in water collection. I was
the responsible for feedstock preparation and feeding the reactor.

**Interviewer**: Where did the women get water?

**Interviewee**: It's not far. We have a borehole there.

**Interviewer**: Where?

**Interviewee**: Behind that tree

**Interviewer**: That's like 100 meters. Not bad.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, sourcing water wasn't a problem. So, we were
collecting water in the evening, so that we could use it the next day.

**Interviewer**: Oh, okay. Did you soak the manure?

**Interviewee**: No, the manure was always fresh, so we couldn't do
that. We simply collected water in the evening to be effective and
lessen the workload. It takes time to get water in the morning as
everybody is there.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. How did you feel about preparing feedstock
and feeding the reactor?

**Interviewee**: It was a tough job. It was very tiresome. It wasn't
easy to feed the reactor. We did the job from morning to late afternoon
to fill up the digester bag, so you can see that it was very tough, for
sure.

**Interviewer**: How many times did you feed it altogether? I mean, you
said it is the first time to start it up with 15 bags and 3 drums of
water. After that, you feed it regularly with feedstock not as much as
the first time to keep it running, how often were you supposed to feed
it?

**Interviewee**: No, no. The installers told us to fill the reactor with
huge amount of manure and water, and after that, there was no need to
feed it again. And, we did this work in two days.

**Interviewer**: You mean you didn't feed it again after the initial
feed?

**Interviewee**: We didn't feed it after that. The installers told us to
feed it with enough water and feedstock until it was full. So, we did
that for two days until the back was full. After that we were done.

**Interviewer**: And you didn't feed it again after that?

**Interviewee**: We didn't because they told us to feed it only once. So
to feed the reactor again would have compromised it, because it had
reached its level. So, if we had feed it after, it would have exploded.

**Interviewer**: So, you mean you only fed it once?

**Interviewee**: I didn't because it only needs to be fully fed once,
and after that it enough and it keeps running on it' own

**Interviewer**: Some people after feeding it the first time, they also
feed it regular maybe with 2 buckets of manure a day or two or even a
week...

**Interviewee**: Aaah, they didn't tell us that. What's the purpose of
feeding it again? If you can feed it again, then it may even explode. I
mean, when it's full it really gets full. You can even stand on the
reactor without it being shrunk (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) so, they didn\'t talk about feeding it
afterwards?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: To tell you the truth, they didn't talk anything about
maintenance. They didn't tell us whom to consult when we had a problem.
They didn't tell us anything. They were doing things without
organization; they just cared about their welfare not about us.

**Interviewer**: They didn't give you their numbers to call them when
you had a problem?

**Interviewee**: Nothing. They didn't give me their number, but they
took mine.

**Interviewer**: You didn't ask them what you were supposed to do when
there was a problem?

**Interviewee**: I did, but they only told me that they would know when
it's not working, and then they would be coming.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how would they know it had a problem?

**Interviewee**: I don\'t know. They just said they would be coming
regularly. That was all. And, I was like, oh, you would be coming, and I
stopped because I didn't want to bother them - they are bosses.

**Interviewer**: Certainly, it didn't meet your needs...

**Interviewee**: Not at all. It didn't work at all. Nothing happened.

**Interviewer**: You didn\'t even cook on it once...

**Interviewee**: Not

**Interviewer**: Porridge?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: Firstly, it's the fact that it did not work at all.
Secondly, we were sideline from other projects by the chief, so it got
us in trouble. The other thing is that people were making fun of us;
they were like what have we gained from all the effort. They even blame
us for accepting the digester. They said they were clever to not to
accept the digesters, but we were dump. They were asking many
provocative questions like why did you accept it, and what have you
gained from it? They even said that we became fools for accepting the
digesters. So, it affected us a lot because laughing stocks to the
community. And, that\`s why most people just got the digester out of the
hole and torn them out of anger (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) oh

**Interviewee**: Yeah, most people got the bags out because they didn't
benefit anything from it. The beneficiaries wondered how the project
implementers gave them useless things like the digesters. People were
very angry because they were sidelines from other benefits or community
projects for accepting the digester. As a result, most people took out
the reactors from the hole and tore them. As for me, I did not take it
out; I just left it in the ground.

**Interviewer**: Why were the people making fun of you?

**Interviewee**: The installers told us that would go for training, and
that people would not buy charcoal or firewood for cooking. But, they
said it's not easy to start using it because it's need a lot of work at
the beginning. So, some people when they heard they couldn't manage it.
Some people who were even chosen as beneficiaries denied it, because
they though the job was too hard. But for us we accepted the challenge,
and we expected to benefit. So, when the people saw that digesters
weren't working and that we were being sidelined from projects, they
started talking. They were like we had been cheated. They mocked us for
not going for training. So, it was a challenge, but we accepted it
because such is life.

**Interviewer**: From experience, most community people become more
attracted in the project when you talk of training. In your opinion, why
is that?

**Interviewee**: \[Stays quite for a time\]

**Interviewer**: Have you understood me?

**Interviewee**: I have understood you very, very much. You have asked
me why community people are attracted to projects that involve training.
People become attracted to such projects because people expect to learn
things that they don't know. They also expect that after the training
they would be taught to act differently in a way that can benefit their
lives. Also, that time, they told us that once we undergo the training,
we would be training other people on biogas so that more people would be
attracted to it, and eventually adopt it. So, people thought it was
interesting to learn the benefits of biogas and teach others to protect
the environment. So it was sad that we expected all these things, but it
never happened, and that's why people became angry.

**Interviewer**: So it\'s not about the training allowance that
motivates people?

**Interviewee**: To some it's that, you know, it takes all kinds to make
the world. So, some people associates trained with allowances (money),
but some like trainings because they want to learn.

**Interviewer**: You have opened my mind on that. I was failing to
understand why community people become more interested in community
project once there a training component. I have seen people showing
little interest to wishing to be group leaders once you mentioned
training....

**Interviewee**: What you are saying is true. What most people think of
trainings is money. It's true.

**Interviewer**: I want to have a clear picture of the fire you got on
the day commission. You say you couldn't cook on the fire because it
wasn\'t strong enough. What kind of fire did you get? Did the flame stay
for long but the flames very little? Or, you got strong flames but
didn't stay for long?

**Interviewee**: It was a very weak fire and it stayed for a very short
time. And, that's why they were quick to say they needed solar panels to
boost it up (laughs). The fire was very little upon ignition, and in a
short time, it was going off. If stayed for long, for 30 minutes, then
we would have been using it. But, it was just staying for a very short
time. And, that was the same with all other digesters, because I did
follow up the other beneficiaries, as I was there chairperson.

**Interviewer**: Did you meet as a group of beneficiaries and talk?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't have the energy to do that after all that
had happened. It showed that it had no future.

**Interviewer**: so the solar that was coming, was it supposed to be
connected to the digester or the solar system was coming as a different
entity?

**Interviewee**: I don't know. The installers talked about it, and I
didn't really discern what they were proposing. I was just listening and
nodding to their proposal. So we were only waiting for the solar panels
to see whether they would work or not.

**Interviewer**: It didn't work, and they didn't give you their numbers.
Did you do anything to fix it?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't

**Interviewer**: So you just abandoned it?

**Interviewee**: We went to the chief and he told us not to do anything,
but wait for the installers, as they communicated that they would come.

**Interviewer**: yeah, so that was one way of not making ...

**Interviewee**: Of making the problem bigger.

**Interviewer**: Yeah. Today, if the project installers call you to
inquire about the digester, what would you say to them? What is the
current state of your digester today?

**Interviewee**: I would tell them vividly that the thing you gave us is
not working us, just like you left it. There is nothing.

**Interviewer**: Do you have the equipment?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I have. I have all the equipment. But, my friends
removed the bags from the hole.

**Interviewer**: Before the interview, you mentioned the pipes.

**Interviewee**: Oh, some people came, not the installers, and they said
they would bring solar panels too, I asked them to see the pipes that
were damaged by the sun. And, they saw that.

**Interviewer**: And, what did they say?

**Interviewee**: That they would bring different pipes. You know, it is
easier said than done.

**Interviewer**: Oh, okay. You have talked a lot and I've talked a lot
regarding the digester. When you look back today, how did it reach this
stage? And, what do you think you caused it?

**Interviewee**: I think it reached the stage because the project
implementers did not have order in the execution of the project. And it
looks like it was an organized plan that these things should not work.
And if you ask, any beneficiary they would tell you the same. The
project implementers did not want us to use the digesters and that's why
they did things anyhow. I mean, if they had trained us and leave their
numbers things would have worked. There was need for communication
between them and us regarding its functionality. The problem is that
they just got our numbers and didn't leave us their numbers. And when it
didn't work, they lied about the solar system.

**Interviewer**: Do you thing someone would come all the way from
Blantyre to give you something he or she knows won't work?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it happens. They just wanted money. The only
cared about their wellbeing. This project was about them and not us. It
had nothing to do with us. We were just pawns.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs now?

**Interviewee**: I use firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: How much charcoal do you use in a month?

**Interviewee**: It's the same like before (2 bags of charcoal)

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How much
did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell me anything about its cost

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you who paid the money?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: I can only think of the equipment we use used for
working.

**Interviewer**: What equipment?

**Interviewee**: For example, the buckets and sack bags for carrying cow
manure!

**Interviewer**: Some say they cooked nsima with chicken for the
installers as a token of appreciation....

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't do that. I shouldn't lie to say I gave
them something to eat. I would be sinning to God to say I gave them
something.

**Interviewer**: Was any masonry work involved? Did you line the hole?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: Why not?

**Interviewee**: They didn't ask us to line the hole.

**Interviewer**: Okay. What special items have to be imported from
another country?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us that the digester was from another
country.

**Interviewer**: Which country?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't specify.

**Interviewer**: When you look back at the digester, you can say it
helped you to stop sourcing firewood or save you money... or any of its
objectives.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the same way it was before the digester, was the
same way after its installation, and it is the same way now.

**Interviewer**: It only brought shame!

**Interviewee**: It only brought shame on this household! (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) it's sad. We are remaining with 3 questions.
What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: (laughs heavily) with the experience I had, there is
nothing good I can say about biogas. (Laughs). I can only talk bad
things about it... Does it have any benefit? No, no (laughs). If it had
something good about it, the whole village would have known because I
could have spread the message. I remember when you called, I talked with
one woman who was also a beneficiary, and she was like you should not go
there, you should only stop here (laugh). And, I was like the person
just wants to ask few things, and she was like no, no way, they
shouldn't come. Those people cheated us, and shouldn't cheat us again...
We became laughing stocks in the community because of them, and after
all this time, why should they come (laughs).

**Interviewer**: Oh, so you can only talk bad about it?

**Interviewee**: And it\`s not only me. Every beneficiary would talk bad
about it, because no one saw its positive side. But, maybe, biogas
itself is good and we think it is bad, because some individuals failed
to make them run.

**Interviewer**: What bad things can you say about it?

**Interviewee**: I can only say, I did not use about Biogas, and it did
not work. So, that's the bad thing about it. And on top of it, we became
laughing stocks before the community because of it. But, I don\'t know
if it works in other communities with the expertise that was given to
them.

**Interviewer**: Do you think training would help?

**Interviewee**: The installers know how these things work, so they
should transfer that knowledge to the people to make it work. In our
case, things were done in shortcut. They should have had a step-by-step
approach on how biogas work and can be maintained, and transfer the
skills to us. It's sad they didn't do that.

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: The basic principle of biogas in Malawi is that people
should benefit from it by using it for cooking in their homes, thereby
protecting and maintaining the environment. I think that's what biogas
is about that. So, many people would generally have interest in that,
and would love to use it. But, if it is implemented as it was in
implemented here, I don't think people would love to adopt it.

**Interviewer**: So you thinking people in a community setting like this
are interested in saving the environment?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and we are big on that. People don't encourage
one another to plant trees, and have woodlots to save the environment.

**Interviewer**: What is the important of trees or the environment to
the community?

**Interviewee**: Trees are very important because they bring rain they
protect the ground from soil erosion, and it acts as a windshield when
there is too much wind etc.

**Interviewer**: I like the way you have articulated it. How did you
learn this?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) I went to school

**Interviewer**: (laughs) I see. Last one, if you could have designed
your waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: There are so many alternatives that I would have liked
to see. When we go to other communities, we see people using solar
energy, so I would like to see this community using that. Solar is good.
Then, you can also think of electricity. We would like to see that as
well.

**Interviewer**: I have seen a power line.

**Interviewee**: It's on that side where the maize meal is. It hasn't
reached here.

**Interviewer**: Why have you chosen those?

**Interviewee**: Maybe those things can work. Biogas has failed.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: I think you have the expertise to make something work.
And, I didn't have a chat with the other people like we have. The other
people seemed in a rush, so I believe this conversation will lead to
something good.

**Interviewer**: That was my last question, in close do you have
anything to say?

**Interviewee**: I'm very happy you came, and I would like to apologize
for not finding me yesterday. It is good today we sat down and have a
good conversation, I'm very happy. Thanks.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for the interview. I have learnt a lot from you
too.
