**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 39**

**Date: September 27, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: It came here with a company called Energy Saver. But,
when they gave us we had no training. They simply said that I should
expect good thing to come, and that they would come back. So, I have
waited from 2017 up to date, but they have never showed up. But, since
then three other groups of people have come to follow up. One time,
people came from Lilongwe came to follow up. They spoke English and
thought I was not following whatever they were saying, as my English is
good, you know how powerful the old school was here in Malawi. However,
I did not like the way they questioned me because it was as if they were
trying to lead me to something. Then, at the end, they commented in
English that I was old, and I asked them if I answered their question
offline, and they said no. That time they came seven people. Then,
another group came last year to follow-up as well. Simply put, the
installers were from a company called Energy Saver and they said the
digesters were from China or some other country. It has been long so, I
cannot remember vividly.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: There was no time they told me where the money came
from. But, the people from agriculture told me that I was going for
training. I believe I would have learnt where the funds came from there.

**Interviewer**: Was the agriculture office involved?

**Interviewee**: They were the ones who were spearheading this here. It
was Mbonechera EPA together with the installers who came here that time.

**Interviewer**: When was this?

**Interviewee**: It was 2017.

**Interviewer**: You have a very sharp memory. How many people came to
build this?

**Interviewee**: I think it was four, if not five people.

**Interviewer**: How many people from your side supported the building
of this?

**Interviewee**: It was basically me. However, my five children also
supported me in sourcing manure.

**Interviewer**: How long did you take to build this?

**Interviewee**: They did give a deadline and I met it. But, I have
forgotten how long it was. They also wrote on a piece of paper the
things I was supposed to source, and I did. I believe they said I was
supposed to source 10 buckets or something, I do not know. But, they did
not teach me anything.

**Interviewer**: What was written on the paper?

**Interviewee**: They wrote the number of water and cow manure I was
supposed to source. And they told me to use fresh cow manure that I got
from well-wishers. So after I got the feedstock, I prepared it, fed the
digester and the bag got full.

**Interviewer**: Apart from sourcing and making feedstock, what else did
you do?

**Interviewee**: I hired someone to make a hole.

**Interviewer**: How many were they? And, how much did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: It was one person and I paid him K3500. And, he took 2
days to dig the hole.

**Interviewer**: I thought you had five children. I mean, was that not
enough?

**Interviewee**: It was small school going girls and boys, who could not
managed to dig a hole.

**Interviewer**: Okay, where did you get your manure?

**Interviewee**: I got goat manure from my got house. I had seven goats
that time. And, the manure I got from my goat house was not enough, so I
got some from other people.

**Interviewer**: How is it like to get manure from other people.

**Interviewee**: There was no problem because people were interested to
see how the digester was going to function. And, I did my best to allure
people to give me manure by trying to sell the concept of a biogas
system and that it was an opportunity for them too to learn from me, and
then eventually adopt it.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) oh

**Interviewee**: Oh, yeah. I was doing that.

**Interviewer**: I was in Tengani, Nsanje last week; it seems that
people do not allow other people to go get manure in their animal
houses...

**Interviewee**: The people in Tengani use cow manure, right? It is
common with cows. In our case, we used goat manure to start it up, so it
was not much of a problem. It was only one woman who denied manure,
because she thought I was going to use it as fertilizer so she asked me
to pay.

**Interviewer**: What do you think they do that?

**Interviewee**: They do black magic to make their cow management
successful.

**Interviewer**: Oh, why don't they do that with goats?

**Interviewee**: Some do, but it is not common in goats farming because
goats are considered less valuable.

**Interviewer**: How many bags of manure and water did they ask you to
find? Or, how bags of manure did you find?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot. I remember they asked me to find one drum
of water that was to be mixed with manure. However, I don't remember the
quantity of manure I was asked to find, and which I found. I had no
standard measure as I was getting manure, and then mixing it with water
without counting. And, some of the bags were full somewhat not full, so
I can't say exactly how manure I got.

**Interviewer**: In this community we have so many people and so many
households, how were you and your family selected as a beneficiaries?

**Interviewee**: I don't know what really happened, but in this
community three other women were chosen and denied it. As for me, I
accepted it.

**Interviewer**: Why did they deny it?

**Interviewee**: They said they wouldn't be able to manage it, and
thought it's a tedious. And, indeed, it was a burden and very tedious,
but I soldiered on.

**Interviewer**: So, in this community you are the only one who got it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, there is one beneficiary from another village,
which I'm aware of. His name is \[name redacted\]. He is a chief.

**Interviewer**: A very charming man is his own way. I think I was there
before coming here.

**Interviewee**: How is his digester like?

**Interviewer**: It\`s bad. He told me that the installers didn't
install it. But, they only gave him some of the equipment, like digester
bag and pipes. Then, they were told him they would come again, but never
did.

**Interviewee**: I also went to the agriculture office with Chief \[name
redacted\] to get the equipment. He dug a hole, but I\'m not sure if
they installed it there because there were fears that his house was in a
footpath. So, he thought it was not going to be safe.

**Interviewer**: How was the selection process like?

**Interviewee**: I think the chiefs chose hard working people. For
example, the chief I went to collect materials with was very committed
to this. I remember, I went to his house and he had already dug the
hole. He even placed the digester bag in the hole, but he removed it
when he saw that too many people were passing by, and he was also
waiting for me to finish, and call the installers.

**Interviewer**: How did the Chief chose you? I mean, how did you know
that the chief know you? What happened?

**Interviewee**: When the project came out chief was called to the
Traditional Authority meeting place. Then, he volunteered to get the
digesters and become a change agent. And, I myself was very willing to
be a change agent too.

**Interviewer**: So, I want to know how you become a beneficiary. How
did you learn first about it? Was it through the chiefs or extension
workers?

**Interviewee**: The chief recommended the extension workers to come
here. Then, the extension workers came here to tell us what to do. So, I
dug a hole there, but I was told to dig close to the kitchen. My initial
thought was that the bag was primarily for making fertilizer, I didn't
think of it as a technology for cooking, and that's why I built it close
to the animal house initially.

**Interviewer**: Did you know anything about biogas?

**Interviewee**: I only knew of biogas when they brought it here.

**Interviewer**: You had the right to say no, and you have even said
some women said no, why did you accept to build it here?

**Interviewee**: I was interested because I heard on the radio that some
people were using biogas like electricity (for lighting, source of power
for TV) as well as for cooking. And, when I heard that it uses goat
manure, I thought it would be easy for me for me to manage.

**Interviewer**: So you heard about it on the radio before they came?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I heard some time back a certain woman saying she
was able to use manure for lighting as well as cooking. And, indeed,
after they installed it, I was able to cook on it during the first days.
But, the problem was that they did not give me spare parts, so when the
gas valve broke I couldn't replace it. When I called the two numbers
they gave me, I was getting a response of wrong number.

**Interviewer**: Did you cross check the numbers?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I did. And, I even tried to copy the numbers by
transferring the numbers onto a different paper. I called the numbers
and the same person who was saying wrong number.

**Interviewer**: So you think it was them?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I believe it was them. Because, some days after
installation, I called the same number to report the issue, and we
talked. That time they told me they would come after the rains, it was
in May, and when I was called after the rains that's when I was getting
the wrong number response.

**Interviewer**: Was it the same voice?

**Interviewee**: I'm not sure if it was the same voice or not. But, I
called the same number they gave me, and I called them on the same
number and we talked before. So, that's I'm saying it was the same
number.

**Interviewer**: Oh, sad. What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: I expected to use it for cooking, just like I was
telling other people. And, I was very sure that if it could work as they
promised, I would be able manage it and teach others about it.

**Interviewer**: What did they promise?

**Interviewee**: They the digester would be used for cooking and
lighting, and that we would teach others about it.

**Interviewer**: Apart from this, what did they tell you to expect?

**Interviewee**: After installation, they talked things that motivated
me. For example, they assured me that the digester was going to pick up
and I would be able to cook and use it for lighting. They also said they
would be following up on me. They asked me question like how many are
you, how many rooms does your house have, and I found they questions
compelling and hopeful that something good was going to happen. But,
since then they have never come back.

**Interviewer**: What type of training did you receive? If I'm not
mistaken, you are saying you did not receive training, then how are you
able to switch it on?

**Interviewee**: They simply showed me how to switch on and off the
stove. And they told me that the bag produces gas when the bag is full.
Then, because they did not give me the spare parts, once the gas valve
handle broke, I failed to switch it on again. The gas valve broke
because it wasn't durable enough. And they told us to call whenever
there was a problem, but when I called them that's when I was getting
the wrong number response.

**Interviewer**: What exactly broke?

**Interviewee**: After the digester bag a part \[gas valve\] meant to
allow gas to enter the pipes broke.

**Interviewer**: How did you know that there was a problem?

**Interviewee**: It was producing moist.

**Interviewer**: Was it producing a certain smell?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it did! And, after I dug the hole, they gave me a
poster of a digester showing a digester with two holes; one was for the
digester bag and the other one was for collection of the digestate. But,
my digester had one hole for the digester bag only and they didn't tell
me about the hole meant for digestate collection. So, I don't know what
happened about that hole because they didn't train me.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you are right that digester do have two holes;
one for the digester bag and the other one is for collection of
digestate at the outlet. So, people do dig a hole at the outlet to
collect digestate that is used as fertilizer. So you are saying that the
installers didn't tell you to make a hole for the digestate?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they didn't tell me that. And, ah, to say the
truth the way they brought the digester here I just feel like something
dubious was happening behind the scenes. And, I asked them why my
digester only had one hole and unlined with a plaster or brick wall,
while the digester on the poster had two holes both lined. They told me
that everything was okay and they didn't even ask me to dig another hole
for the digestate, and from that time on I never saw them again. And, if
you could have seen how the digester was built here and that from the
picture you would see how different they were. I still have the poster
in my house, but I just don't know where specifically it is now.

**Interviewer**: Yeah and that's also true, digesters need to be lined
with a brick wall or something. So you said you brought the issue to
them?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they said everything was okay. And if a problem
came, we should inform them. However, when the digester bag started
rising goats were stepping on it as they were moving around because
there was no protection around it. As for the digestate, it wasn't a
problem because it never flashed out digestate.

**Interviewer**: So you are saying after everything was done you felt
that there was something shady about the whole thing...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that's what I thought (laughs). They came six
times, but there was no order in their visits. They didn't down as you
have and talk things as we are now. They were just coming, and then move
around. Sometimes, they could find me coming out of the bathroom, and
take a picture and I was like why were they doing things, so fast and
without respect.

**Interviewer**: That's so disrespectful. So after installation, how
prepared to run or operate the reactor did you feel you were?

**Interviewee**: No, and after the plastic thing broke at the gas valve
it started deflating and it stopped. Then, after the bag shrunk, it was
trouble. One day as one of my children was playing fall into the pit and
people advised me to take it out as it had a potential of causing harm
to children. Also, after the rains started the digester bag got covered
with soil as soil was collapsing into the digester, as a result of soil
erosion. I was trying to remove the soil, but it was too much so it
didn't work.

**Interviewer**: A child fell in the digester?

**Interviewee**: Yes, my child fell in the digester pit, but lucky
enough she landed on the digester bag that had air, so she was not
injured. After people saw this, I was advised to take it out.

**Interviewer**: Did you use it?

**Interviewee**: I used it for a very few days. I used it for a week, I
think.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: I was simply using firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: I didn't have a problem with sourcing firewood that
time. As you can see the forest is not far from here. Also, I have a lot
of trees around as you can see. But, things are now different because
people have cut down a lot of trees from the forest for the purpose of
making charcoal. Now, as a community, we have even started stopping
people from making charcoal from our forest.

**Interviewer**: Where did you start noticing the change that the forest
is running out of trees?

**Interviewee**: It's been some time now.

**Interviewer**: 2 years?

**Interviewee**: 10 years or so

**Interviewer**: How are you coping now that wood is not as abundant as
it was?

**Interviewee**: It's not easy as it was. Now we also use maize cobs and
dry pigeon peas plants.

**Interviewer**: Oh, it doesn't look sustainable. So, what will happen
after that?

**Interviewee**: I should ask you how I would survive without biogas
(laughs). I mean, it's true that we are running out of firewood, so you
should have come up with you as you do support us in terms of cooking.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Sure. You said you had goats and I think you
still have goats....

**Interviewee**: Yes, I had goats, but now I'm only remaining with four
goats.

**Interviewer**: How many goats did you have when they brought the
digester?

**Interviewee**: I had seven goats.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your goat manure that time?

**Interviewee**: I was simply collecting manure, and then place it in
the ridges at my farm.

**Interviewer**: How does it work?

**Interviewee**: It somehow doesn't work. I don't know if I'm the
problem because the manure sometimes break down but it wilts my maize.
Maybe it's because I just get the manure directly to the farm without
keeping it a pit or sack. Honestly, I don't know if I'm the problem, but
straight talking, I don't find it effective.

**Interviewer**: I thought that in a community like this, agriculture
extension workers teach you how to manage those things....

**Interviewee**: They do tell us, but we have been listening to the same
things for so long.

**Interviewer**: What do they say?

**Interviewee**: That we should be digging pits, line the pit with
plastic and then place manure in the pits and cover it for some time to
decompose. We haven't tried to do this, because it's difficult and we
don't manage to do it.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) I hope this "laziness" did go into biogas as
well?

**Interviewee**: No way! With biogas they promised a lot of good thing,
so I couldn't play with it. Eh, I was so committed to biogas. I wanted
to be exemplary, and even when I was going to ask for manure, I was
assuring the people that they would learn from me -- and they would see
lights in my house - so I couldn\`t have afford to be seen as a failure.

**Interviewer**: Okay. Moving on, you have told me that after digging
the hole you were told to source manure and it was a lot of manure, but
you have forgotten exactly how much it was. Where did you get water to
start it up?

**Interviewee**: That time I was not connected to a piped water system
so I got the water from that river. We have a river in the vicinity.

**Interviewer**: Oh, it's within 100 meters. And, you have a piped water
system now that is great.

**Interviewee**: Thanks, it is always on and off thought.

**Interviewer**: How was it like getting all that water with you
children?

**Interviewee**: It was tough because that time it was summer and the
river had dried up. So, we got it from the stream there.

**Interviewer**: Oh, some 200 meters away. So after feeding it that
time, how long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: They told me to wait for few weeks, if I'm not mistaken
some days. After that period the digester bag got full and it showed
that it had gas in it.

**Interviewer**: On the day of commissioning, did the installers come?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they came because the bag wasn't fully assembled
that time as the bag was still sealed, and we only covered the outlet
and inlet pipe with plastic bag and rubber strips. So, on that day, they
came with other pipes and the stove and assembled it. Then, they opened
the stove and I heard a sound like air flowing. After that, they lit it
and it produced fire.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commission?

**Interviewee**: On the day of commissioning, I was able to cook side
dish of vegetables. And I was very happy because I was expecting that
everything was going to run smooth and that they would be coming to
follow up on us and in the process motivating us. The next day after
sunrise, I cooked porridge for my little children as well. So, I can say
I used it.

**Interviewer**: Did you cook nsima on it?

**Interviewee**: I never cook nsima on it. It was only side dish.

**Interviewer**: Which side dish?

**Interviewee**: Pigeon peas - And that day they came and found me
cooking on firewood. So they asked me to take the pot of pigeon peas
from firewood to biogas. Thus, I started cooking firewood and finished
on biogas.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever cook beans on it?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: It was because I thought the fire wasn't strong enough.
But, one day I was able to warm water for children on it -- it's sad
though I never used it for cooking.

**Interviewer**: I want to have a clear picture of how it worked in its
7-day life. So could please explain to me how much cooking time you got
in those 7 days.

**Interviewee**: Like I said, I only used it for 7 days and it wasn't
like I was using it on the daily basis. Thus, in those 7 days, I used it
for three or four days only, and that's the days I cooked porridge \[20
minutes\], side dish \[20 minutes\] and boiled water for bathing \[20
minutes\]. It did not work long because of the plastic that got broken
at the gas valve. I believe they knew that part had a problem before
because it looked like it was broken from the very start. And, I believe
that's why they told me to inform them if there was any problem. So when
I noticed the problem I was fast to report and that's when they said
they would come, but never did. And the problem escalated to the point
it started leaking gas.

**Interviewer**: So, in the whole 7 days, you didn't use it for more
than 2 hours. What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: It's basically what they told me in the beginning. They
told me to feed it with manure and water to get the bag full. That was
all.

**Interviewer**: How often did they told you to feed it, and in what
quantities?

**Interviewee**: No, I shouldn't lie that they told me that. On the
first day, they only advised me on feedstock preparation. But, it's been
long, so I can't remember what exactly they told me. I can only remember
that, I did what they asked me to do.

**Interviewer**: After feeding it the first time, did you feed it again?

**Interviewee**: I fed it because the bag wasn't to the level that they
told me. And, when I fed the digester bag again, it got full to the
level they talked about.

**Interviewer**: Do you remember how much feedstock did you feed it
with?

**Interviewee**: No, I don\'t remember, it's been a very long time.

**Interviewer**: After feeding it the first time to start it up, how
many other times did you feed it?

**Interviewee**: On the day of starting it up, we did put water first
before the manure. After pouring water, they demonstrated to me how to
handle, and I did as they demonstrated. Then, I was told to do the same
whenever I was feeding it.

**Interviewer**: so, how much water and manure were you supposed to feed
the digester with?

**Interviewee**: Mmh, I don\'t remember.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: First, I was going to the goat house to collect fresh
manure with no trash. Then I was placing manure in the bucket, add water
and then mix it. Not all manure was broken down because goat manure I
was collecting was also contaminated with dry manure. So no matter how I
tried, lumps or full goat manure was always mixed with the slurry. Then,
after mixing for some time, I was pouring the slurry into the digester.

**Interviewer**: Did you have a mixer or a stick for mixing it?

**Interviewee**: I was using my hands, but I was covering them with a
plastic bag. I never used a stir or stick!

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was me together with my children. And, it was them
who were going around asking for manure from people's houses.

**Interviewer**: What were maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: They simply advised us to inform them on any
malfunction. So when it malfunctioned the first time I called them and
they told him they would come. But, when I called the second time to
follow up I was told that it was wrong number.

**Interviewer**: The same number?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the same number.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to call them after it
malfunctioned?

**Interviewee**: When it malfunctioned, I tried to call them instantly
because I didn't want to the digester bag to collapse completely. That's
when they said they would come. And when I called them about a week or
two again, it's when the responder told me that it was a wrong number.

**Interviewer**: You said you didn't cook nsima on it because you were
simply easy on it. Why were you easy on it? Why didn't you use it for
cooking nsima, beans and all that?

**Interviewee**: I simply underestimated and belittled the flames. I
don't think if I could have put a pot of nsima or beans it wouldn't have
gotten cooked. I just had a perception that the bag wasn't full enough,
but it was still somewhat full.

**Interviewer**: Did you differentiate that the taste of porridge cooked
on biogas and on firewood?

**Interviewee**: No, it was the same.

**Interviewer**: What challenges were there?

**Interviewee**: Eh, there were so many challenges. The first challenge
was that they lied to me despite all my efforts, and it's what
disappoints me most; it was like I worked for nothing. I was also hurt a
lot when the people I told would learn biogas from me asking me to take
out the digester bag. It hurt. It hurt because that was not we agreed
upon. And, I was very saddened about the whole thing.... It was fraud!
The installers promised they would be following up -- they were speaking
English throughout and thought I wasn\'t picking what they were saying.
I remember one time they mentioned that I shouldn't be taken for
training because I was too old, and I asked them if they had asked me to
do something and I didn't, or if I didn't do anything as they say. They
said I did everything perfectly, so I told them I'm not old and I still
have the energy to do it. So, I found it disrespectful for them to say I
was old when I did things correctly and with commitment, while other
people volunteered that they could not make it.... And I have to tell
you, I felt in my heart that the people weren't honest by the way they
conducted themselves when they were here.

**Interviewer**: So they didn\'t convince you that they were here to
install the digester so that you could use...

**Interviewee**: They didn't convince me whatsoever. They were just
obsessed with taking pictures. And, the last time they came here I asked
them how they were going to help me revamp the digester. They only said
they would come back to fix it, and since then they never came back.
However, eight people came last year to access the digester as well.
They found the bag completely collapsed, but it was funny because people
thought they were here for corona.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to fix it?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn\'t. I couldn't have fixed it because I knew
nothing about it.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. Let's talk about the people you were getting
manure from. You said you got manure from them because you wanted them
to learn from you about biogas. How did they react when they saw that it
didn't work? How did people reach?

**Interviewee**: I worked very hard to attract people and to make the
digester work. And I was even challenging them that my digester would
work, and people believed because of my efforts and commitment. So, when
it didn't work, some people degraded my efforts. Some people were saying
I'm a failure and that I had been cheated -- and, I totally agree with
them that I was fooled.

**Interviewer**: If some installers come to install the digester, would
you accept them?

**Interviewee**: I would like to have a digester because my heart is
still in it. I have been telling all the people who have been coming
here that I still want it and to prove to people that I can manage it.
Of course, some people may think I'm old but I still have family who can
be helping me to manage it. So, I would like to own a digester again
because I would like people to learn about biogas from me.

**Interviewer**: You don't look old to me. And, you look strong. How old
are you?

**Interviewee**: I\`m 59 years old.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you receive something like this?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this information and do think it
would have helped in your case

**Interviewee**: Yes, it would have helped a lot as the information
could have served as a reminder and could have also guided me in
resolving issues. And, it was better than giving me their numbers and
later ignoring me when I called them. Of course, I can't say I could
have solved all the problems, but at least I would have managed to fix
some of the issues by myself.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think you couldn't have managed to solve all
problems with all that rich information?

**Interviewee**: It's because I don\'t know if they could have left as
spare parts. I mean, we go to technicians to fix our things because they
have spare parts. So, the success of that information would have
depended on the availability of spare parts because it\'s not only about
knowing the problems, but also having the spare solve the problem.

**Interviewer**: Let's suppose the installers call you today and ask you
to describe the current state of your digester, what would you say?

**Interviewee**: I can tell them it\'s not working. And, let's be
honest, the digester is dead. I don't think it can work again because
the bag was cut to take it out the manure and it had lots of them. I
remember we hired about five people to take it out and it took them 2
days to finish everything. And, if I have a chance to talk to them, I
can ask them how a thing that was left in 2017 without any follow-up
would survive without a technician. That's what I can say. It may seem
that I'm being rude to them, but I\`ll just be reacting to the way they
handled the whole thing.

**Interviewer**: I understand, you earn respect.

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) Yeah, it was a marriage without an engagement
-- it just ends anyhow!

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay the people who took it out?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember how much we paid them, but certainly
we paid them a hefty amount because you can\`t do all that work for
peanuts.

**Interviewer**: What did you do with the manure?

**Interviewee**: Nothing. We just buried it in the ground as we left it
in the pit.

**Interviewer**: Taking all things into consideration, how did it reach
this state? And, what caused it?

**Interviewee**: It didn't work out because they left me in the dark and
didn't stick to their promises. But, if everything was done according to
plan, I could have told you what exactly went wrong. I can't say I'm the
cause of its failure because it didn't reach a level where I assumed
responsibility. It was still in their hands, so it's the people on top
that failed and caused the digester to fail as well.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet you energy now that this is not
working? Do you still use firewood and dry pigeon peas plants, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's what I have already said; dry pigeon peas
plants, firewood and maize cobs.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How much
did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us anything about that. They were only
coming here to take pics and then go.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) did you sign any paper?

**Interviewee**: I didn't sign any paper.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: I didn't contribute anything except for the money I
spent when we were starting it up, and removing the bag.

**Interviewer**: Was there any masonry work involved?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: I don\'t know, as they didn't tell me directly where it
came from. But, I heard them saying that it was from Japan or China. It
was a lot of items that were involved. We had the pipes, the stove and
the bag. And, I used my own money to collect the digester bag and pipes
at the agriculture office, and that was the first money I spent on it.
When, I came here to dig the hole, I found the ground too hard and
compact as it was in the dry season, and that's why I hired people to do
it for me.

**Interviewer**: Oh, did you collect the items by yourself at the
agriculture office?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I remember I went with Chief \[name redacted\] to
collect the items by ourselves at the agriculture. When we went there we
found two other people, so if Chief \[name redacted\] say he didn't find
everything there, it could be true as there was no order in the way we
got the things.

**Interviewer**: You were so committed, uh?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was and it's sad it didn't work out.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. We have
about three questions to wrap up. What was the biggest difference in
your life in that week you had it, if there is any?

**Interviewee**: It was just the beginning of a new era and I feel
saddened that it didn't go further. I'm sure if it could have continued,
cooking would have been simple.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of Biogas?

**Interviewee**: I still have the desire to own it one day because I
didn't reach I wanted. I want one day to use it for cooking and lighting
as they explained.

**Interviewer**: So, you still have interest in it, and you wish to use
it again for cooking and lighting.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, that's my wish.

**Interviewer**: What the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I have questions about its practicability because I
have had two conflicting experiences. The first experience is what
happened with the biogas that was installed here. From that experience,
I have serious doubts about its future. I see no future by the way thing
panned out here. The second experience is what happened last year. I
didn't understand why they came to ask me the question after all these
years, so it got me thinking that it may be revamped again in the
future.

**Interviewer**: Final question, if you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what could you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I don't have any intervention in my mind. But, whatever
it is it shouldn't be tough to start up like a digester in terms of the
first digging and feedstock preparation -- it was not easy to start it
up! It's a lot of work!

**Interviewer**: Before I wrap up, do you have anything to say?

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming and I have learned a lot from this
conversation. I didn't expect us to talk this way. It's been great.
However, if you noted the time you called me to inform me about your
visit, I wasn't keen talking about biogas because the last people who
came here seemed like they wanted to help me, but ended up tricking me.
But, when you said you would come in person it changed my whole
thinking. So, thanks again for coming for this talk.

**Interviewer**: Thanks for welcoming me as well. Thanks a lot!

**Interviewee**: Welcome!
