**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT:**

**Site ID: 44**

**Date: September 29, 2022**

**Interviewer:** Where did this digester originate from?

**Interviewee:** I don't know where it came from; I have forgotten.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you or did you ask?

**Interviewee**: I asked but because I do not know how to writing, I
lost it.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: I think it was a non-governmental organization and it
collaborated with the government.

**Interviewer**: Okay, do you know the name of this organization?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: When was it built?

**Interviewee**: I do not really remember the specific date, but I think
4 or 5 years have passed.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came to
install this?

**Interviewee**: They came two times. The first time two people came and
the last time four people came.

**Interviewer**: What was your first encounter with them?

**Interviewee**: First, the chiefs called us for a community meeting to
brief us about the project. So, they basically told us that biogas
system uses animal manure to produce energy for cooking. I believe in
each village one person was chosen. In my village, when I saw that
people were unwilling to accept it, I volunteered to get it, and then
people encouraged to get it. I basically accepted the digester because I
anticipated that in the future, it was going to help, and then once
people saw its benefits they would adopt it themselves.

**Interviewer**: How did you expect it to help you?

**Interviewee**: There were certain things that were explained, and I
found compelling. Nowadays, firewood is scarce, so I thought that it was
going to help me in this regard. Also, I thought the digester was going
to help me protect and restore trees. The main aim of the coming of the
digesters here was for us to find an alternative for cooking, and then
protect the environment.

**Interviewer**: Okay, why were people unwilling to accept it?

**Interviewee**: I think many people thought they would not manage to
source manure. Or, maybe some people just refused it out of fear, as a
result of poor thinking.

**Interviewer**: What did they fear?

**Interviewee**: Maybe they just thought they would not manage it - Just
fear of failure.

**Interviewer**: So did you accept it for the sake of being a chief,
like you did not want it to pass your village since all your subjects
declined it, or did you accept it because you had the necessary
requirements and liked it?

**Interviewee**: I accepted it because I had goats, so I knew I could
manage. And, when the installers came, they made us gather manure, and
then advised us to prepare feedstock. So from that point onwards, I had
no fear and I knew that I would manage to run the digester.

**Interviewer**: How many goats did you have that time?

**Interviewee**: I had eight goats.

**Interviewer**: so, some people did not accept it....

**Interviewee**: Yeah! When the senior chief asked people to volunteer
to get the digester everyone was just quiet.

**Interviewer**: What was your role?

**Interviewee**: My first role was to accept it with a joy because I
knew that whoever was giving us the digester had a purpose here in
Malawi. Secondly, I thought that the donors were generously to village
people like us who are shortsighted in our thinking. So, I accepted it
to make it appealing to the people who denied it in the first place, so
that they could adopt it later too.

**Interviewer**: Did you dig a hole when it came?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I dug a hole with my children.

**Interviewer**: How many children?

**Interviewee**: Two children.

**Interviewer**: Did the installers take part in the digging?

**Interviewee**: No, they just advised us to dig it.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to dig the hole?

**Interviewee**: It took us two day, as you know the bag was huge. So,
to make it fit hole, the hole had to be big and wide too.

**Interviewer**: What advice did they give you?

**Interviewee**: The advice was just on how deep and wide the hole was
supposed to be. I have forgotten the dimensions though. But, it was a
big hole.

**Interviewer**: In this village, we have so many people and so many
households; I want to get a full picture of how you were selected on
that particular day.

**Interviewee**: Okay good, you are going to get me clear on this one.
What happened was that, our Late Senior Chief offered the digester to
the people, but no one accepted. After a very long time, more than you
have stayed here (15 -- 20 minutes), the Senior Chief stood up and asked
the people what was the way forward. Then, some loud person from the
group just shouted that it should be given to the chief, like it should
be given to me. And, everybody was like let us just give it to the
chief, and that is how I got it. And, I could not have said no because
everyone wanted me to have it, and I thought that I could manage it.
After that, I committed myself to manage it.

**Interviewer**: So, I shouldn't think that it was just thrown to you by
the people?

**Interviewee**: No, and I was happy to have it because it is a special
thing here in my Malawi and I've never seen it anywhere else in Malawi.

**Interviewer**: Where was this selection process made? Was it at the
TAs meeting place or at Senior Chief's meeting place?

**Interviewee**: I believe we first met at the Senior Chief\`s meeting
place, and then we went to the TA's meeting place.

**Interviewer**: So it's like the T/A asked the Senior Chief to hold the
meeting....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and whoever was chosen was supposed to go to the
T/As meeting place, and went there.

**Interviewer**: What was it like at the T/As meeting place?

**Interviewee**: They communicated to us that we were lucky to be chosen
as beneficiaries from different villages, and they hoped that many
people would get the digesters if they worked.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before? If I have heard you
correctly, you didn't know about it, right?

**Interviewee**: I knew it when I was called to the Senior Chiefs
meeting place. And, it was where they communicated that the digesters
would help us in cooking as well as in saving the environment.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were you expectations?

**Interviewee**: I expected that after installation and upon completing
everything, I would be able to use it for cooking.

**Interviewer**: What were you told me to expect from the digester by
the installers?

**Interviewee**: The installers told us that the digesters were
forcooking.

**Interviewer**: Apart from this, what else were you told to expect?

**Interviewee**: Apart from cooking, if I'm not mistaken, they told us
that it could be used for lighting, and as a source of fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Where did they say the manure was going to come from?

**Interviewee**: They said that digesters produces digestate, and we
only needed to collect and use it as fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever use the digestate, or for lighting?

**Interviewee**: No, it never occurred.

**Interviewer**: I've seen that one woman accepted it, and it's not too
far from this here...

**Interviewee**: Oh yeah. That's Nyama Village. So, when the people of
Nyama Village sat down to choose a beneficiary, she was chosen. As for
Mkasaulo Village, nobody accepted it and that's why Group Village
Headman (GVH) \[name redacted\] took it. And the question you are trying
to put out, we got asked at the T/A\`s meeting place. They asked us why
we chiefs got the digesters. Didn't we have people who could have got
the digesters? So, we told them everything that had happened, and that
people refused to accept the digester. So, we got asked the same
question (laughs)

**Interviewer**: Yeah, honestly it doesn't look good because it may seem
as you used your powers or your position to get the digesters.

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) Yeah, but we told them that people had denied
it, and we couldn\'t have afforded to let it go to another area.

**Interviewer**: When I look at the three of you; Chief \[name
redacted\], you and the woman, I can't say you used it; it all ended in
total failure. But, the woman at least did better than you. Why did the
chiefs fail miserable, when you were supposed to be exemplary as
leaders?

**Interviewee**: Interesting... mm-mmh... In a community setting like
this, we do have people who are smarter than chiefs. Some people do
things better than the Chiefs, and are even more successful in wealth.
It happens, that's life. But in this instance, we felt because they
didn't give us a full set of the equipment - they only came once. As for
that woman, she was given everything.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: If I ever learned about biogas, it was at the community
meeting at the TAs meeting place. But, there was no special training for
the beneficiaries.

**Interviewer**: What did you learn at the TA\'s meeting place?

**Interviewee**: They only ask us to take good care of the digesters and
that it's helpful. So, they told us how useful it is, and that it needs
manure to work, and also that the installers would teach us more about
the digesters.

**Interviewer**: What were you told in regards to taking care of it?

**Interviewee**: They told us that when the installers come and finish
everything they would tell us how to manage it in order to keep it safe
and long. But, they didn't tell us how we were supposed to take care of
it.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think of the installers never came back?

**Interviewee**: mm-mmh, I don't know. I heard at GVH \[name redacted\]
place they didn't finish everything too.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, they only brought a digester and a pipe. But,
after some time, some people came to follow up on the digester. Did they
come here?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't. Maybe they thought it wasn't necessary
to come here after what happened at Mpita's place.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you mentioned that you accepted this because you
wanted to use it for cooking. Secondly, you wanted other people to learn
it, so that they could appreciate and adopt it later. Apart from these,
is there any other reason why you accepted it?

**Interviewee**: Also, when I looked at the environment, it's trees
which makes the environment flourish, so I wanted to reduced the cutting
down of trees and make the world a better place. Also, I feel like if we
are going to continue cutting trees as we are, we are not going to find
firewood for cooking in the near future. So to avoid that, I decided to
accept the digester.

**Interviewer**: The environment is flouring because of tree, could you
please elaborate on that.

**Interviewee**: I'm saying the environment flourishes with trees
because we get rains because of trees. Of course, it's God who provides
rain, but for that to happen you need trees to facilitate the process.
Thus, if we cut trees and use it for silly thing, the amount of rain
decreases as well.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did you make your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: That time I was cooking with firewood, but it was a
struggle as firewood is not easy to find. Sometimes, my wife was using
dry pigeon plants as firewood. But, we were luck that time because a
certain NGO came and encouraged us to plant private trees. So, we get
firewood from the private trees.

**Interviewer**: What is the name of this organization, and what was
their project like?

**Interviewee**: Every year we do have a tree-planting program, which is
spearheaded by government forest officials with funding from a certain
NGO. At this tree planting session, we plant trees at our community
forest and also people are given free seedlings of tree to plant for
personal use. So, some people have personal woodlot, which they get
firewood from.

**Interviewer**: Okay nice. How do people benefit from the community
forest?

**Interviewee**: Sometimes the whole community is asked to go to the
forest take care of it, and then people get dry fallen wood, which they
use as firewood in their homes.

**Interviewer**: Nice. How did you manage your feedstock before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: Now that I don't have goats, I'm struggling because I
only rely on inorganic fertilizer. When I had goats, I was only buying
one bag of inorganic fertilizer then I was mixing it with goat manure to
make two bags of fertilizer. To make this, you only need to mix one bag
of inorganic with goat manure and add yeast, or baking soda or ash, then
put it in a plastic bag for a week. After a week, you find the goat
manure completely broken down and ready to be used as fertilizer. You
only need to be careful when you are opening the plastic bag because the
heat that comes out of it is intense, it can even affect your eyes if
you are not careful (laughs). This type of fertilizer is effective and
once you have it, you can't bother to buy fertilizer from the shops.

**Interviewer**: Okay, where did you learn this?

**Interviewee**: We learnt this from a certain NGO.

**Interviewer**: What's the name of this NGO?

**Interviewee**: Mm-hmm, I have forgotten its name.

**Interviewer**: What about agriculture extension workers?

**Interviewee**: Oh yeah, they also teach us this.

**Interviewer**: Let's try to see what transpired from this digester
though it never worked. First, which materials were you given?

**Interviewee**: I was given a digester bag and two white pipes as an
outlet and inlet.

**Interviewer**: Did you get the material yourself? Or, they brought it
here?

**Interviewee**: I went myself to collect the equipment on a bicycle.

**Interviewer**: They didn't bring the equipment?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't. I got it myself from the agriculture
office at Nsanama.

**Interviewer**: Did all the beneficiary got the equipment by
themselves?

**Interviewee**: I remember we got it ourselves -- I haven't forgotten.
I took it myself.

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you get all the equipment, for example, the
stove and other pipes?

**Interviewee**: They didn't give us those. They said they would bring
the equipment themselves. No beneficiary got all those things that day.

**Interviewer**: Did you take the equipment first? Or, the installers
came first?

**Interviewee**: We took the materials first, and then they came here to
advise us on how to dig the hole.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take?

**Interviewee**: They came before 2 weeks, I think

**Interviewer**: So on the day the installers came, what did you do?

**Interviewee**: We started digging the hole, and it took us 2 days.

**Interviewer**: Did you place the bag on your own?

**Interviewee**: No, the installers came.

**Interviewer**: I hope you also fed it that day.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they guided us how to make feedstock, and then
they told us they would come back to assemble it and teach us how to
operate it.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you feed it with?

**Interviewee**: They advised us to feed it with 2bags (50kg) of manure,
if not more.

**Interviewer**: And water too I guess.

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add, and where did you get it
from?

**Interviewee**: I got the manure from my animal house, and I got the
water from the borehole.

**Interviewer**: Like how far from here?

**Interviewee**: Our community borehole is not far from our house. It's
about 400 meter.

**Interviewer**: So you fed the feedstock into the digester?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add to the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: We added 4 or 5 buckets (20 liter), and after a week,
the bag got full.

**Interviewer**: After this what happened?

**Interviewee**: After we fed the bag, it started inflating. But, it was
not completely assembly as other pipes were not there. Then, after we
saw the installers were not coming, and that the feedstock was producing
strong odor, we decided to remove the digester.

**Interviewer**: I thought when you fed it, the inlet and outlet pipes
were covered, so how was it producing odor?

**Interviewee**: Yes, the pipes had covering. But, after some time, I
decided to go and take out the coverings and that's when I smelled the
odor. And, that's when I knew the inside was not good - rotten. After
this, I wanted to call them, but I didn't do so as I had no contacts of
them.

**Interviewer**: When the installers were leaving, when did they tell
you that they were going to come back?

**Interviewee**: They left on the 15^th^ or so of month, and they told
us that they would come at the end of the month to assemble the
remaining equipment.

**Interviewer**: When did you open the covering, and why?

**Interviewee**: After I saw that two or three months had passed, I
decided to check it out, because I was like they are not coming back.

**Interviewer**: After feeding it the first time, did you ever feed it
again?

**Interviewee**: No, I knew that even I feed it nothing would happen
because I knew that the installers were not coming again -- so there was
no need.

**Interviewer**: What were operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They told us that it's easier for people who have cows
to run it, as manure is not a problem. But, for us since we had no cows,
we would use goat manure to start it up, so it was going to take a lot
of effort and time to gather. Then, there was no need to worry because
we would be feeding it with small quantities of feedstock.

**Interviewer**: After starting it up, how much feedstock were you
supposed to feed it up with and how often?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us that.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you how to make feedstock?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements? Did they say
anything about repairs?

**Interviewee**: They told us that after installation they would give us
their contact to call them whenever there was a problem.

**Interviewer**: So they didn't give you their numbers, but you expected
to get their numbers after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but they didn't come again to commission it
(laughs)

**Interviewer**: Why do you think they never come back?

**Interviewee**: That I don't know.

**Interviewer**: Or, do you think they didn't come because they saw that
you couldn't manage it to the extent of thinking that returning to
assemble it was simply a waste of time. What do you think?

**Interviewee**: No, goat manure is not a problem in this community.
People can't deny me goat manure. So, on my part, manure wasn't a
problem. Even when I don't have enough inorganic fertilizer, I go around
asking for goat manure and people give me without challenges.

**Interviewer**: My next question was to ask you if it met your needs,
but to ask that question would be wrong. What are your cooking needs?

**Interviewee**: I just want to cook at least 3 times a day.

**Interviewer**: Many things happened with this digester, when you look
back, what were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The challenge with this digester is that it didn't
work, and I was very saddened by that.

**Interviewer**: Did you follow up? I mean, did you inform the TA or
Senior Chief?

**Interviewee**: I informed the Senior Chief, but not the TA. I think, I
was wrong on that. Maybe, he could have followed up the matter.

**Interviewer**: What did you tell the Senior Chief and what did he say?

**Interviewee**: I told him that the installers were not coming, and he
just said it was hard to follow up since we had no contacts. So, we were
lost and there was nothing we could have done.

**Interviewer**: You have admitted that you don't know how to read and
write. So, what I have here is information regarding problems associated
with digesters, their causes and related solutions. What do you think of
the information and do you think it would have helped in your case?

**Interviewee**: It would have helped.

**Interviewer**: How and why?

**Interviewee**: It would have helped us because it could have given us
clues on what to do. But, the information should have been given to us
after installation, and not before it was not fully installed because we
could have done nothing with it. So, maybe they didn't give us this
information because they weren't done with the installation.

**Interviewer**: What is the current state of your digester?

**Interviewee**: Honestly speaking, the digester bag is damaged. I
should not lie to you because it won't do us any good, it is broken.

**Interviewer**: Do you have the pipes?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we still have the white pipes.

**Interviewer**: What about the bag?

**Interviewee**: It's what I said it's damaged.

**Interviewer**: I mean, how? Or, what is the extent of the damage?

**Interviewee**: It was eaten by termites, and it was damaged in the
house by rats too.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you mean termites can eat that hard thing?

**Interviewee**: Yeaaah, termites were eating it up! And, even if you
can see the bag you can know that termites were eating it up.

**Interviewer**: How did you remove ii?

**Interviewee**: After a year when we saw the installers were not
coming, we removed it, and that's when we noted that it was being eaten
by termites. Then, we got it to the storeroom and there too rats were
eating it up.

**Interviewer**: What happened to the manure that was inside?

**Interviewee**: After we removed it we just disposed it anyhow because
didn't know it's use.

**Interviewer**: so, you didn't use it as fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't.

**Interviewer**: I can see you are using the digester bag as a roofing
sheet.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I just decided to use it that way after finding
no real use for it.

**Interviewer**: I have also seen you are using it as a makeshift door
for your pit latrine.

**Interviewee**: That's true... it's not like after I got it out I sold
it, no! I didn't thought about selling it (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Can a person buy that, for what?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Aah, it's useless

**Interviewer**: Why didn't you sell it?

**Interviewee**: It's not good for a chief to sell government property.
I mean, what if other people see you, then how would you discipline them
(Laughs). So, we should be the first ones to show respect to other
people's property, so that others can learn from us too.

**Interviewer**: What happened to your digesters is a pity, that
shouldn't have happened. It's making laugh at times because what
happened was bizarre. In your opinion, why would an organization send
people to do a job and then stop in the process?

**Interviewee**: I don't know. But, in my head sometimes, I'm not
judging anyone though, I think the installers decided to sell the
equipment somewhere else. I do think so. I mean, the way we talked the
time they came, I didn't think more than 4 years would pass without
returning. God forbid, I think that the boys who came to install the
digesters sold some of the equipment. Honestly, I did think the boys did
sell the equipment somewhere, and I was saddened by it.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, it could be possible. I mean, where is the
equipment? Now how do you meet your energy needs? Do you still use the
firewood and dry pigeon peas plants?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's still the same.

**Interviewer**: Now you don't have goats or any livestock, right?

**Interviewee**: I don't keep any livestock now.

**Interviewer**: How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us. Maybe if they had come to
commission it, they would have told us.

**Interviewer**: And they didn't tell you who provided the funds, right?
And, it's not the government, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No, we contributed nothing\... Frankly speaking, we
didn't contribute anything\... Of course, it's been a long time, but I
can certainly say we didn't contribute anything.

**Interviewer**: So if you ever spent anything on it, then it\`s was
just the energy

**Interviewee**: Right!

**Interviewer**: Is it two of you, who dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: It was me together with my two grandsons. So, it was
three of us.

**Interviewer**: You said you did put the digester in the hole, was the
hole lined?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't say anything about that.

**Interviewer**: I've heard some people were told to find sand, and
bricks, and that the installers promised to provide cement, so that they
could line the hole in which the digester was placed.

**Interviewee**: I have heard they did that to some people, and they
never brought the cement. This clearly show that they stole cement -- I
feel bitter about those guys -- and If you were them, I would have asked
" is this how you conduct yourself?" The government want the livelihood
of people from rural communities to change and you are robbing us
(laughs heavily).

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Oh, you were robbed?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) Obviously!

**Interviewer**: If you are certain that you were robbed, why didn't you
take the issue somewhere, for example, the police or any other relevant
government authority?

**Interviewee**: It never crossed our mind. That's why I always say
education is good because it makes people became far-sighted. Of course,
I'm a chief, but I'm not educated. I just use God's given knowledge and
wisdom. That's why most things do not work for us. And, that's why I
encourage me children to go to school. I don't want them to suffer like
me, and that's why I allow myself to do menial works to gain something,
so that they should go to school.... I do feel pain for being
uneducated!

**Interviewer**: I like the desire you have for children, do that, and
never slow down; you will gain great rewards someday.... So, you think
if you were educated, this wouldn't have happened?

**Interviewee**: No, that wouldn't have happened because I would have
pressed them to finish this. The problem is that I only have natural
intelligence. But, I feel lucky that I'm a chief and I'm able to connect
with intellectuals.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) so you only have natural wisdom...

**Interviewee**: (laughs) that's what I use -- I use natural
intelligence, and the knowledge that I gain from meetings, trainings and
conferences to lead the people without troubles.

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: When I saw it, I knew that it was from another country.

**Interviewer**: What did you see?

**Interviewee**: I mean, we were given the digesters to try them here,
so I believe someone from outside the country wanted to try the
digesters in Malawi -- That's what I thought!

**Interviewer**: What do you think who brought the digesters here in
Malawi would say about what happened?

**Interviewee**: It could be that the project implementers gave them the
report, and they want to verify the reports through you... so they have
sent you to investigate the matter to see what really happened, so we
can't hide or hold any information from you, because if we do that it
will not do anyone good (laughs).

**Interviewer**: That's true. If it could have worked as they said do
you think it could have saved you any money?

**Interviewee**: Yes

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: It could have basically helped us in cooking and in
saving trees as well, so these have serious economic implications.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I feel like I have unfinished business with the
digester, though it may seem that I didn't take good care of it by
taking it out and use it for other purposes. I did that against my will
and I was forced to do that because I was just seeing the bag doing
nothing. I removed it because a lot of time had pass, so I thought they
had abandoned it and it was useless. But, my position on biogas is that
it is good especially when I consider how populated we have become, we
really need an alternative to firewood because it's no sustainable, and
it's not good for the environment too.

**Interviewer**: If you could have designed your own waste of energy
intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: Instead of biogas, I would have chosen a good solar
system to use it for cooking. I think solar system can help a lot. I
can't say electricity because it needs money. For example, in my area,
we have electricity lines, but I'm not connected because it needs money.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you electricity in your area?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we have it, but my house is not connected because
I'm poor and can't manage to pay connection fee.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. Last words, before we conclude the
interview.

**Interviewee**: You should help us.

**Interviewer**: How? Should I find the person who didn't bring the
materials? (laughs)

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) help us get solar system or even another
biogas.

**Interviewer**: I get you, thanks a lot chief.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) I thank you for coming too.

**Interviewer**: Welcome!
