**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 45**

**Date September 29, 2022**

**Interviewer:** Where did the digester of originate from?

**Interviewee:** It came with people from University; I don't know the
name of the University thought. The people told me that they were going
to put a stove in the kitchen, and that I had to dig a hole for the
digester. They also told me that the digester would use animal manure,
for example, goat, pig and cow manure. They further explained that I
would be able to get energy for cooking as well as fertilizer from the
digester.

**Interviewer:** The installers mentioned that they came from a
university, but you have forgotten the university. Was it Poly, Mzuzu or
Chanco?

**Interviewee**: I didn't pay much attention to where exactly they were
coming from, but I was more focused on the technology they were bringing
here. So, just like many villagers would do, I simply accepted the
technology without asking questions.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: They didn't explain that. They just told me that they
were going to install a technology that produces gas for cooking. Then
they told me that they would line the hole for the digester bag and
another hole with a brick wall, and that they had people who would do
that. After that, they also mentioned that I would be collecting manure
from the other hole, which I could use as fertilizer. When I heard about
the fertilizer, I called three other chiefs to come and join me in
digging the hole, so that they could be getting manure from the digester
as well. After we dug the hole, we waited for the installers to come but
they never came. They only gave me the things you took pictures of \[a
digester bag and one PCV Pipes (110mm)\] on the day they asked us to dig
the hole.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: I think it was four or three people. After this, years
went by and five other people visited the digester too.

**Interviewer**: What was the purpose of their visit?

**Interviewee**: They told me that their records showed that I was a
beneficiary of a digester, so they wanted to follow up on the digesters.
Then, I told them that certain people came and left a digester bag and
one white pipe. But, they didn't even place the digester bag in the
digester hole. I took them to the hole to see it and they took pictures.
Then, I told them that I felt like I was robbed and things didn't make
sense to me. I also asked if the same had happened to other
beneficiaries. Then, they laughed and said that's why they had come to
find out what happened to the digesters. Then, I said okay and I asked
if they would bring the remaining parts in the future. Then, they told
me that they would come back, but before leaving, they stood on that
mango tree and asked me to give them their privacy. They stood there for
10 -- 15 minutes, and then they told me that they were going, and would
come back at some point. Since, then they have never returned and I have
never heard of biogas until I got your call the other time, and talked
and provided you directions and all that.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean when you say you were robbed?

**Interviewee**: They took advantage of me and deprived me of what I was
supposed to get. They were cunning that I shouldn't get the digester.
Let's say they did want me to get the digester, so they stripped and
deprived me of the digester.

**Interviewer**: Then, why did they give you some other things if they
didn't want you to get the digester?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, sometimes you may think you are given meat when
it's just a bone! Then, you release later that it's a bone and not meat!

**Interviewer**: (laughs) Oh

**Interviewee**: (laughs) I thought I had meat and I started chewing it,
but then I bite it and found out that it was hard bone.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) It's common to see chiefs mobilizing community
people to help them when there is a project, why did you call other
chiefs, not just community people?

**Interviewee**: It's not as it was in the past where chiefs would just
choose people to do certain things for them. Of course, some chiefs to
do that, but I'm not that type of person. So, I called the chiefs
because I wanted them to inform their subjects that when the digesters
become fully functional to bringing manure, so that they could also be
getting fertilizer out of it too.

**Interviewer**: So, you wanted to make it a community thing, nice. What
was your role?

**Interviewee**: I took the role of a "treasurer". I accepted to take
care of digester so that other community members would gain processed
fertilizer from it by providing raw animal manure ... So, I can say I
was a "treasurer" because I was a custodian of the digester!

**Interviewer**: Okay, that's one part. The other thing you mentioned
that you took part in the dig of the hole together with other three
chiefs. How big was the whole and how long did it take you to dig it?

**Interviewee**: The hole was 3 meter deep and 1.5 meters wide, if I'm
not mistaken, and it took us 2 or 3 days. So, after we dug it we waited
for them to come and advise us, if the hole was sufficient or not.

**Interviewer**: How did you get the bag and that white pipe?

**Interviewee**: The digester bag and the white pipe came before we dug
the hole. On that day, they advised us how to dig the hole, and then
they gave us the bag and the pipe. Then, they told us that the pipes
were not sufficient, so they would come back with pipes and bags of
cement to line up the hole with brick wall. So, that day I kept the bag
and pipe waiting for them to come back at some point.

**Interviewer**: Okay, I get it.

**Interviewee**: And that's when the next people came to follow up the
digesters. So, you told the same story.

**Interviewer**: So the bag was not installed in the hole? You did put
the bag in the hole?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we don't know how to do that, so didn't do
anything afterwards. And the time they were leaving, they told us that
they would bring a builder to line the wall and place the bag, and then
assemble the whole digester.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) and they didn't come?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah, they didn't come.

**Interviewer**: Did you follow up?

**Interviewee**: Where would we have gone?

**Interviewer**: At the T/A (Traditional Authority)

**Interviewee**: We were 3 or 10 beneficiaries, if I heard that one had
followed up, I would have followed up too.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. In this village, that you have many people
and a lot of households, how were you chosen as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: The digester was not given to me directly by the T/A.
The digester was first given to Senior Chief \[name redacted\], who the
identified me as a beneficiary because I'm a chief. He chose me so that
I could use it for generating fertilizer. And, if I had wished too, I
would have given it to an ordinary person too. But, I thought that it
wouldn't have been in safe hands. I believed that an ordinary person
would have sold it to bicycle taxi people to make seats, or to people
who make beehive boxes. You have found it today because it was in safe
hands. If it was given to an ordinary person, you wouldn't have found
anything. If I was not a chief, I could have sold it way bag (laughs).

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how can people use that in a beehive box?

**Interviewee**: Because it is good plastic, people use that to make a
cover for the beehive to prevent water from getting inside.

**Interviewer**: So you didn't sell it or didn't make a beehive box, I
have seen you have one, because you are a chief. You wanted to save
face? (Laughs)

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) and that's why it's still here.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) I understand you got the digester because you
thought if it was given to an ordinary person, it was not going to be
safe. But, surely, there is another reason you accepted it. Why did you
accept to build it here apart from what you have told me?

**Interviewee**: When we want to grow maize we start by digging holes
and then put animal manure to act as fertilizer months prior to
planting. We use manure here because the soil is so degraded and without
doing that, we can't harvest maize. So, when I was told that the
digester produce fertilizer I had no choice, but to take it.

**Interviewer**: Some people have told me that animal manure is not a
good fertilizer, what's your take?

**Interviewee**: It helps a lot; what you do is, you mix 20 kg of ash
with 20 kg of animal manure, then add baking soda of K50 or K100 (50g)
and yeast of K50 or K100 too. Then, add water and mix again until the
mixture gets wet as mortar. After that, you put the mixture in a plastic
bag, and then cover it with a sack bag. After a week, you take it out
and add 5kg of inorganic fertilizer and mix as the first time. Then, you
put back the mixture in a plastic bag, and then cover it with a sack bag
and wait for a week or so. After that, the manure becomes effective as
inorganic fertilizer and the maize you get is the same, as you would get
after using inorganic fertilizer. And with that manure, you don't whine
when you are left out of the agriculture subsidy program.

**Interviewer**: Well explain. How did you learn this?

**Interviewee**: We have agriculture extension workers who teach us
this, and they call this type of fertilizer "Whitman". So clever people
make and use this type of fertilizer, and others who are lazy they
don't. But, this type of fertilizer is good.

**Interviewer**: I didn't know that it\`s name is "Whitman". Did you
know anything about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No. I learnt about biogas the time they told me that
they were going to bring it here, but I haven't been given up to date.

**Interviewer**: What did they say about it? When you asked them, what
did they say it is?

**Interviewee**: I didn't ask them. They told me about it without asking
them, and they told me that with biogas I would be able to use it for
cooking and a source of fertilizer for vegetables and maize.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how was the selection process like?

**Interviewee**: I don\'t know how Senior Chief \[name redacted\] was
chosen, and how he chose me. I don't know if he was chosen by the T/A -
I don't know. I just know that the instrallers we are directed here by
Senior Chief \[name redacted\].

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations? First time I have seen
that you expected to use it for cooking. Secondly, you expected people
to be getting manure from it. How was this going to happen? What was
your plan?

**Interviewee**: After installation, I expected to go to training. Then
after the training, I would have made this a community thing by
mobilizing all the chiefs under me to sensitize their people about
biogas. Also, I would have asked everyone who had livestock, not to
throw away manure, but to bring it here so that they could get processed
manure from the digester after sometime. I wanted to do this to develop
my community.

**Interviewer**:That was a brilliant idea. If it could've worked, a lot
of people would have benefited.

**Interviewee**: I'm a chief who is known for spearheading community
development initiatives. I remember one time I went to Hippo Lodge for
stakeholders meeting, and I was applauded for my works. The people there
commented that I'm doing a good job, and that they thought I was a big
tall person because of my works. But, I'm just a short and slim old
person. So, I thanked them very much for the compliments - and it's a
good thing to do the good work because when you die you are rewarded by
God afterwards for caring for his people.

**Interviewer**: Oh, nice. What religion are you?

**Interviewee**: I'm a Sunni Muslim.

**Interviewer**: Okay, nice. What kind of training did you receive? Did
you have a pre-installation training?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't have anything in regards to biogas

**Interviewer**: Were you told about training?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't. I think training would have only
happened after installation. After installation that\'s when they would
have said let\'s go to Hippo Lodge or any other extravagant place for
training (laughs).

**Interviewer**:You have been in some nice place, uh.

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah, and I thank the railway company here for
that. They have got me to some nice places and they even provide
fertilizer to people.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: Here in Mkasaulo and Malawi at large, when we want to
cook anything, whether it is sweet potato or cassava, we use traditional
three-stove-cooking fire.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: In the past, firewood was not hard to find. That time
we used to go to the game reserve to steal firewood, as it was not
fenced. Some used to go to the mountains and bush lands to get wood.
But, now firewood is scarce because of high population growth, so we use
maize cobs and firewood. Luckily, we have now energy efficient stoves
that use less firewood. With that, only three sticks of firewood are
enough to cook without problems.

**Interviewer**: Do you buy wood?

**Interviewee**: I shouldn't lie, we don't.

**Interviewer**: How far are your firewood sources?

**Interviewee**: It's very far to go to the mountains to source
firewood. As for me, I thank the European Union for giving me trees,
which I get firewood from.

**Interviewer**: How did that happen?

**Interviewee**: The European Union came here with a tree-planting
project where people were given tree to plant, and they made a community
woodlot. So, every (group) village here has a forest, and the people
have trees too.

**Interviewer**: For a digester to work it needs animal manure. Did you
have livestock that time?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I had goat manure. And, many other people in this
community have goats too.

**Interviewer**: How many goats did you have?

**Interviewee**: I had 15 goats. But, people were stealing from me, so I
transferred the remaining two goats I had to my mother's house. But, if
you another digester could come, it wouldn't be a problem because I can
easily get manure from other people or even buy. It's common to get
manure for free because people find removing manure from cow houses a
difficult task, so when you offer to do that, it's appreciated a lot.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) how would someone steal from a chief?

**Interviewee**: Thieves don't steal without using juju. They make you
go to the farm and upon returning, you just find the doors open and your
goats gone. They even kill the goat in the goat house without you even
noticing. (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: I thought that only happen to ordinary people not
chiefs!

**Interviewee**: You can't understand thieves; they steal from a highly
guarded place and you wonder how what is even possible. So, if people
are able to steal where there are guards, what more here.

**Interviewer**: My next question was to ask you how it worked after
commissioning. But apparently, that question can't be answered because
it never worked - it was never installed.

**Interviewee**: It wasn't installed and they didn'tcome to line the
hole. If it was installed and lined, then I would have been following up
to see what was happening. Today, I don't say that I was given a
digester, but I say some people came to me, so that I could keep a
digester bag and a pipe safe for them. And, I haven't been paid for that
service, so it's as if I have worked for nothing too.

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, why was it not installed here?

**Interviewer**: I keep asking myself that question. Sometimes, I think
it's because I'm a chief, so they thought that if I got it people would
not benefit anything out of it. But, if they had told me that I was not
supposed to get the digester, and an ordinary person from this community
was suppose to get it, I would have given it up. And it's not like I
wouldn't have benefited from that arrangement, no. I would have been
going to that person as well to get manure from the digester. So, I
accepted it because I'm old, so it was only necessary for me to stop
going around searching for firewood to make life easy for me and my wife
too.

**Interviewer**: So they thought if you get it other people wouldn't see
its benefit, and maybe they didn't like how you were chosen. They
thought it wasn't necessary for a chief to get it. So to make life
easier for themselves, they just decided not give you the digester.

**Interviewee**: On that, I totally agree. It could be that.

**Interviewer**: How many people were expected to use the gas and
fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: It was four people.

**Interviewer**: I believe that even before installation, you were told
what things you would require to operate it, and when you saw that you
could manage to get the requirement, you accepted. What were the
operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They just told me that it would need feeding with
animal manure, whether it is cow manure, goat manure, pig manure, or
chicken manure.

**Interviewer**: And water?

**Interviewee**: They didn\'t reach that stage. I think they would have
told us about that at the training. After that time, we were only told
to find animal manure.

**Interviewer**:So they didn't tell you how prepare to cow manure?

**Interviewee**: They could have told me about that during a training at
Hippo Lodge (laughs). And, we could have had our note pads writing
everything down (laughs)

**Interviewer**: So up to date that digester bag never got fed?

**Interviewee**: We never installed it, and we never fed it. After the
installers gave me the bag, I just kept it in that white building.

**Interviewer**:From this, I don't think my next set of question can be
answered... I wanted to ask you if it met your needs and even
challenges. Did they talk about maintenance?

**Interviewee**: I think they would have told us about repairs after it
was installed after the training. They would have also given us their
numbers to report any issues, but after installation.

**Interviewer**: If it was installed, what would have been your cooking
needs?

**Interviewee**: To cook on it three times a day. First, I wanted to be
able to cook breakfast in the morning. Then, cook lunch and supper
before going to bed.

**Interviewer**:What challenges did you in regards to this whole thing?

**Interviewee**: It hurts that we didn't have an opportunity to learn
about it. The other thing is that the digester bag was damaged by
termites.

**Interviewer**: How? Did you put it on the ground?

**Interviewee**: Initially, we kept the bag in the house but later found
out that the rats were eating it up. So, we got it out and that's where
termites started eating it up too.

**Interviewer**: Did you think it could be safe outside?

**Interviewee**: It's a thick plastic bag that cannot be damage by
water, and it's not like I literally put it on the ground. I did lay
some bricks on the ground, and then I placed the bag on top the bricks.
And at that time, most of it had already been damaged by the rats, so I
didn't care about it, and that's why I even put it outside.

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this information? Do you think
it's helpful?

**Interviewee**: We were supposed to learn this information at the
training. What I mean is after installation, they were supposed to get
all the beneficiaries, not just me, to training and teach us these
things, so we could have operated and maintained it.

**Interviewer**: We are in September of 2022, let's suppose the people
who gave you the digester bag and pipe call you, what would you say?

**Interviewee**: It's straightforward, I can simply ask them to tell me
what stage of the project are they now? When are you coming? And then I
would tell them that the digester bag was eaten by termites and rats.
It's been a lot of years, is it 5 or 10 years? And, all the children
that were born around that time have reached puberty stage now
(laughs)... So, if I can have a chance to talk to them I would ask them
to update me on the project, and to tell me if they would ever come
again or not. And if they are coming, I could ask them to bring a new
digester bag because the last one is broken, and to bring a stove and
the remaining pipes as well.

**Interviewer**:I have seen that you are using the digester bag on your
pigeon house?

**Interviewee**: I had a thin black plastic sheet, but after strong
wind, it was damaged. So I just decided to cut the digester bag and use
it as roofing sheet for the pigeon house. And, it's better to keep it
there because it can't be lost and it may be used as an evidence that I
received a digester bag. I remember, I worked in the gold mines in South
Africa, and to get new protective clothes you had to show the old
protective clothes, and that's why I keep it too.

**Interviewer**: I've seen you have used some remaining part of it as a
fence for cassava stalks?

**Interviewee**: Yes, one day I saw that rabbits were eating the cassava
stalks from that edge of a corner, so I decided to put it around there
and use it as a fence.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How do
you meet your energy needs now?

**Interviewee**: I get wood from the trees around my house and use it on
the energy efficient stoves.

**Interviewer**: Now you don\'t have livestock. The only two goats you
have you keep it at your mothers place\...

**Interviewee**: I decided to put it there because I didn't want thieves
to steal it, and give me a heart attack and die. So, if I want to make
manure I go there to collect manure and make "Whitman" fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: How much the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: I wasn't told, but I think it's a lot of money. But, I
can't know the actual amount though.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: Nothing, I only lost my energy on it without getting
anything out. But, since it was dug within my compound, I can always use
the hole as a refuse pit when I want to

**Interviewer**: I have seen that you haven't covered it up..

**Interviewee**: It's a big compound and it's outside the fences, so I
have no problem with it.

**Interviewer**: You said you didn't line the hole, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: Do you think the reactor or the pipe was imported from
another country?

**Interviewee**: Everything here in Malawi is imported from South
Africa, Japan or China. Even the organizations that support us are from
outside the country. Of course, we have our local organizations, but
they also get funds from international organizations to survive.

**Interviewer**: So you think it's from another country?

**Interviewee**: Certainly.

**Interviewer**: If it had worked, do you think it would have helped you
to save money?

**Interviewee**: If it was installed properly and worked, chiefs
especially those who weren't given would you have learnt about it here
and eventually adopted it in their villages. And, also we could have
create a community team to oversee its operation and even be responsible
for managing and selling the fertilizer to other people, and also
telling them about the digestate. So, in the end we could have made
biogas known to so many people. It would have also brought money to the
community, and the same money would have been used for repairs too.

**Interviewer**:What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas seems to be a good thing and we would like to
have it here. But, whoever is going to bring it here again shouldn't do
thing unorganized and in haste. He should do it a way that it should
work and help people. So, I would be happy if someone else gets it. Or,
if they decided to bring it here, I can also be happy.

**Interviewer**: When you say things should not be done in an organized
manner and haste, what do you mean?

**Interviewee**: They should bring the bags, the pipes, line the hole
and take us to Hippo View Lodge for training.

**Interviewer**: Last one. If you could have designed your own waste or
energy intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I choose a solar system, so that people who sell sweet
beer (thobwa) can come here to keep their drinks in a refrigerator.
Also, I would like people to come here and charge their cell phones,
though I don't like cell phones because they perpetuate prostitution and
are affecting cultural norms and practices. Nonetheless, I would choose
a solar system because I can use it for lighting, while I'm using it for
business in the afternoon.

**Interviewer**: Many thanks, do you have any last words?

**Interviewee**: I'm a chief of development, so if there's any type of
developmental project consider me.

**Interviewer:** Understood**.** Thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming too.
