**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 50**

**Date: October 1, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: We heard that the Village Development Committee (VDC)
chair went for training. After he came back from the training, he called
us to select people who were interested to get the digester. Apart from
that, we do not know exactly where these things came from.

**Interviewer**: So you communicated more with the VDC chair, and he is
the one who liaised with project implementers to identify the
beneficiaries, right?

**Interviewee**: True.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who funded it?

**Interviewee**: I believe it was funded by a non-governmental
organization.

**Interviewer**: What is the name of this organization?

**Interviewee**: We have just forgotten, but they gave us the name.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee**: The same people who came with the digester bag. It was
them who placed the bag in the hole, assembled the pipes and other
fittings. Then, they advised us to feed the digester with cow manure and
water. Because, the task of preparing feedstock was hard, we hired some
women to do the job. After we finished they went and came another time.

**Interviewer**: So, I can see that the process involved the visitors,
and you and your people some of which you hired did the job....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was the one who dug the hole.

**Interviewer**: Alone?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, alone. I was also responsible for buying bricks.
At first, we did not do any masonry work on it because we expected to
receive cement from the project implementers. Then, they came and told
us that it was our duty to buy cement. So, we gathered sand and bricks
onto one place, and when we saw that we could not manage to buy cement,
we just used mud to line it the brick wall.

**Interviewer**: Did you line the whole hole?

**Interviewee**: No, we just lined the top of the hole to prevent soil
from collapsing into the hole. Then, after failing to buy bags of cement
initially, we bought one bag of cement to plaster to the hole after a
month or so.

**Interviewer**: Who did the masonry work?

**Interviewee**: I did that alone.

**Interviewer**: You have said you used the one bag of cement to line
the top of the hole. How many bricks did you use?

**Interviewee**: I used 150 bricks to line the top of the digester hole
and for the digestate hole.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the bricks?

**Interviewee**: I bought it from a certain man called \[name redacted\]
somewhere there.

**Interviewer**: How much did you spend on the bricks?

**Interviewee**: I bought each brick at K25, and I bought 250 bricks but
I only used 150 bricks.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came to
build it?

**Interviewee**: Two or three people came.

**Interviewer**: On top of what you have mentioned, what other role did
you play?

**Interviewee**: I was only responsible for digging the hole, doing the
masonry work, and paying the laborers' to source feedstock.

**Interviewer**: In this community, we have many people and a lot of
households. How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: I was chosen while I was not around. I only got a
message that I was summoned to Chief \[name redacted\] court. When I got
there, they told me that they had selected me as a beneficiary of a
biogas digester that was part of a pilot of biogas project. Then, they
told me that they had chosen me because I am active in community
development initiatives and they believed that I could manage it.
Therefore, they asked me if I was interested and I told them that I
would be interested to own a digester, so that is how I was selected.

**Interviewer**: Is it true that you are active in community development
initiatives?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and that is why they had no doubt that I could
manage it.

**Interviewer**: Tell me you activeness in community development
initiatives?

**Interviewee**: There are a lot of community development projects that
I have been involved in. For example, before the biogas intervention, I
volunteered to take part in a tree-planting program that was intended to
restore trees in this community. I was very much involved in that, so
since the biogas project was also about saving trees, I believe that's
why the chose me.

**Interviewer**: When you were called to Chief \[name redacted\] Court,
you had the freedom to say thanks but no. So, why did you accept to
buildit here?

**Interviewee**: I expected to use it for cooking as they promised. So,
I thought I would stop going to the mountains to look for firewood.
Thus, I accepted it because I expected it to offer me an opportunity to
use my cow manure for cooking by simply collecting fresh cow manure and
then mixing it with water.

**Interviewer**: Between going around searching for firewood and
preparing feedstock to get flame for cooking, which one is better for
you?

**Interviewee**: It was better to prepare feedstock to get fire because
the feedstock was gathered within from my cow house. Also, biogas is
better since it does not damage the environment.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I did not know anything about biogas.

**Interviewer**: You have told me how you were introduced to biogas at
the chiefscourt, could you please take me through your first encounter
with the project implementers. What did they tell you?

**Interviewee**: The first time when they came, they parked their car
here because the road was accessible that time. So, that time they told
us that we needed to work hard so that the digesters would work and help
us. Then, after installation, they encouraged us that if the digesters
worked, they would make some improvements. They said that as it
continues working it starts producing more gas that we could use it for
other purposes like charging phones, lighting, and as a source of power
for TV. So, we were very excited about it. Then, I started visiting
other beneficiaries to see how they were doing, and to see if I was
doing things as I was told. Then, I found out that I was doing the same.
And, even when my digester started misbehaving, I was going to them to
see where I was doing wrong... The first problem we had was that gas
started leaking at the gas connector. Then, we glued it up with an
adhesive and it worked. After the digester had worked for some time, the
gas pipes developed tiny cracks, so gas started leaking. As a result, we
could not get flames at the stove.

**Interviewer**: Okay, so they told you that you would be using the
digester for cooking, and if it worked well and started producing enough
gas, you would be using it as a power source for your appliances as well
as for lighting. Apart from these, what else were you told to expect by
the installers?

**Interviewee**: That was all I was told.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: Ah, we did not go for training.

**Interviewer**: Then, how were you able to use it?

**Interviewee**: We were just doing what they told us during
installation. At first, they came with the digester bag, placed in the
hole, and then assembled it. Then, we fed and closed it, and the
digester bag got full after sometime. Then, they came again to assemble
the green pipe, the two bottles and the stove. Then, they commissioned
it, and it produced flame. So, when they were commissioning it, they
showed us how to turn it on and off.

**Interviewer**: You are saying you did not receive training, but you
were just told one or two things, for example, how to switch it on. How
prepared to run or operate the digester did you feel you were? And, did
you feel that it was enough?

**Interviewee**: A proper training was needed. A proper training would
have given us confidence and knowledge to know where we could get the
spare parts once replacement of parts was required. It could have also
given us the knowledge and skills to diagnose problems, and then solve
them. So, I believe we would have gotten these kinds of skills through
training only.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: Before the Intervention, we used the trees we planted
around as firewood for cooking. So, we simply cut a tree, chop it up,
dry it, and then use it as firewood. Also around this time, our women go
to the fields, gather dry pigeon peas plants, and use it as firewood for
cooking.

**Interviewer**: At that time, did you have any livestock?

**Interviewee**: Yes, at that time, I had pigs and cows. I had a brick
fenced animal housethen, but it collapsed after heavy rains.

**Interviewer**: I can also see that you have chickens.

**Interviewee**: Yes, I have chickens, and even guinea fowls. And, even
that time, I had them.

**Interviewer**: Do you think you were chosen because you had livestock?

**Interviewee**: It could be.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your animal manure?

**Interviewee**: We gather pig and cow manure onto one place. After some
time, we collect and use the manure as fertilizer for our crops. We also
do the same with chicken and guinea fowl manure. We simply sweep the
animal house and place the manure in a sack bags. Then, before planting
crops, we apply the manure as fertilizer in our fields.

**Interviewer**: Does it work? Or, do you add inorganic fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: It works okay. But, of course, we add a little
inorganic fertilizer as well.

**Interviewer**: How many pigs and cows?

**Interviewee**: I had 5 cows and 7 pigs.

**Interviewer**: That is a lot. Let us talk about how it worked, but
before that let talk\'s about how it was installed and commissioned. At
first, you were told dig a hole and you did, and then they brought the
digester bag. Was the digester hole dug on the same day you were given
the digester bag?

**Interviewee**: I believe I dug the whole for 3 days. Then, they came
with the digester bag, which had two openings. Then, they fitted a white
pipe on each end of the digester bag opening, and then tied it with
rubber strips. After that, we placed the digester bag in the hole. Then,
they advised me to dig another hole at the outlet for collecting
digestate. They said that the digester would be release digestate on its
own at the outlet as I keep feeding it. Then, they left as I was digging
the hole for the digestate.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how much feedstock did first charge it with?

**Interviewee**: I started it up with 6 bags (50kg) of fresh cow manure.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get it?

**Interviewee**: I got all the manure from my cow house. I remember they
gave us 3 days to prepare and gather the manure. So, after grazing the
whole day, we would goto the cow house every morning to collect manure
because that is when you get a lot of manure. I believe we got 2 bags of
fresh manure a day.

**Interviewer**: So you got all the six bags from you cow house?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We are lucky today that we have a borehole close by.
But that time the borehole was very far from here. I think it was
approximately 2.5 kilometers from here. So, to make sure that we did the
job in time we hire women to draw water for us. I think we collected a
drum (200 liters) of water, but when we started preparing the feedstock,
we found out that the water was not enough. So, we hired extra workers
to do the job and to show the installers that we were committed by
meeting their request. We hired many women, and we feed the bag with a
lot of water.

**Interviewer**: How many people did you hire?

**Interviewee**: The first time, I paid the women K3000. The second
time, I hired eight women and they used those 40 liters buckets to carry
the water, and they were drawing water as we were preparing the
feedstock. I agreed to pay the women K1, 000 each after the work.
Because, it was very sunny and I wanted them to do the job as fast as
possible, I paid them more than usual. So, in total, I paid the women
K11000 for the water that was used.

**Interviewer**: How much water was that?

**Interviewee**: The first time it was a drum (200 liters). The second
time it was difficult to count because we just agreed that they should
collect enough water to make suitable slurry, so they were simply adding
water to the cow manure without counting. But, they collected more than
two drums (200 liters) of water the second time. It was a lot of water.

**Interviewer**: I can imagine. How long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: It took the installers a month to come and finalize the
installation. But during that time, the bag got full. So, when they came
and installed the remaining equipment, the digester worked.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: After commissioning, it produced strong fire, and it
worked very well for 2 weeks... On the day of commissioning, they told
us to feed it with a bag of fresh cow manure everyday. So, we used to
feed it with a bag of cow manure, and my wife was the one who was
responsible for collecting water.

**Interviewer**: How much water were you adding to the cow manure?

**Interviewee**: 2 buckets of that bucket there.

**Interviewer**: I think that is a 40 or 60-liter bucket.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, so we were mixing 2 buckets of water with a bag
of cow manure, and then we were feed the digester in order to make it
produce gas daily.

**Interviewer**: You said during the first two weeks, it worked it quite
okay. How much cooking time did you get in those 2 weeks?

**Interviewee**: During the first two weeks, I was able to prepare
breakfast in the minutes \[15 -- 30 minutes\] with it. I was also able
to cook nsima and side dish on it \[1 -- 1 hour 30 minutes\]. In the
evening, it was producing very little gas so my wife was not using it,
because she thought it was taking very long. Thus, in the evening we
were using firewood to cook things fast -- The fire was just too little
in the evening.

**Interviewer**: So in the first week you were able to prepare breakfast
and lunch?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and I was even able to warm water for bathing
too.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get after 2 weeks?

**Interviewee**: After 2 weeks, we saw some changes. When we made
feedstock and fed the digester, we saw that we were not getting enough
gas. When I tried to analyze it, I saw that it was leaking gas at the
gas connector.

**Interviewer**: So after 2 weeks, gas started leaking at the gas
connector. What did you do after?

**Interviewee**: I reported the issue to the person who was coordinating
the program here. Then, he sent a person who sealed the place with an
adhesive. Even then, I noticed that it was not working as before.

**Interviewer**: Who is the person who fixed it?

**Interviewee**: I do not know. But, it looked like some one from the
community.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get after that?

**Interviewee**: After that, we could not use it before 11 AM, even if
we fed it early in the morning as we were told in the first place. So,
we were only able to cook nsima \[25 -- 35 minutes\] and boil water for
bathing \[15 -- 20 minutes\]

**Interviewer**: So after that, you could not prepare breakfast and
supper, you would only use it around noon?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to stop working?

**Interviewee**: We used it close to 5 months.

**Interviewer**: So in 5 months, you were able to cook nsima and boil
water \[30 -- 60 minutes\]?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was able to cook nsima or side dish and boil
water \[30 -- 60 minutes\].... I remember I asked where the gas was
coming from. So, I was told some organisms in the manure produce the
gas.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how long did it take for the person who fixed it
to come after you reported to person who was coordinating the project
here?

**Interviewee**: It took more than a week. It was one week, I think.

**Interviewer**: So after 5 months it completely stop?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How did it stop?

**Interviewee**: After feeding it, and the bag was getting full. And,
when we wanted to use it, we were opening gas valves, and then we got
gas at the stove. But, after 5 months, we stopped getting gas at the
stove even after feeding it as usual.

**Interviewer**: What happened?

**Interviewee**: When we analyzed the pipes, we saw multiple small
cracks on the gas pipe. Then, we bought seal tape and sealed the cracks,
but it did not work. After this, we realized that we made a mistake by
putting the pipe in the ground instead of hanging it in the air. As a
result, people were stepping on it instead of avoiding it. But, I blame
myself for not removing the pipe on the ground though the installer put
them there. I think we should have thought that ourselves. After that,
because we did not go for training, we failed to know where we could
have gotten the gas pipe, so we left it. Then, we asked the one who was
coordinating the project here, where we could find the pipe and he told
us that he would report the issue to the installers.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did you use the gas?

**Interviewee**: It was only for cooking.

**Interviewer**: How many people used the gas that time?

**Interviewee**: We were 7 people.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was responsible for preparing the feedstock. My wife
and girl child were simply supporting me in sourcing water though.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock? Did you use a mixer,
stick or something?

**Interviewee**: I was using my hands.

**Interviewer**: Did you have any problems with that?

**Interviewee**: I had no problem with that.

**Interviewer**: Didn't you feel gross about handling manure?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: How would do you describe the task of feeding it?
Wasn't it tough?

**Interviewee**: It was not tough. Every morning, I was simply going to
the cow house, collect fresh cow manure, mix it with water, and then
feed the digester.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: They just told us that we should report any problem and
that they would be coming to rectify the problem.

**Interviewer**: Who were you supposed to report to? Who was
coordinating the project there?

**Interviewee**: I was told to report to the VDC chair, \[name
redacted\], and it was him who was suppose to report to the ADC chair,
\[name redacted\].

**Interviewer**: So the first time it leaked gas, you reported to the
VDC chair, \[name redacted\] who then reported the issue to \[name
redacted\]?

**Interviewee**: Exactly!

**Interviewer**: The second time?

**Interviewee**: The second time when I noted the cracks I thought I
would fix it on my own with seal tape. But, I failed because the cracks
were just too many. That's when I reported the issue to \[name
redacted\].

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: It was working, but the problem I thought was small
turned into a bigger problem. So, the main problem I had with is that it
didn't take long to start producing insufficient gas.

**Interviewer**: When you had it, where you still using conventional
methods of cooking?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, at first I was able to use it in the morning
hours and during lunchtime. But, at evening hours, I was using firewood
because my wife thought that the gas that was coming was very little.
After sometime, I was only able to use it in the afternoon hours.

**Interviewer**: Is it wrong to say that it did not meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: You are not wrong because I was not able to cook on it
throughout the day, as it cooking systemis supposed to.

**Interviewer**: Did you differentiate how it worked during cold weather
and hot weather?

**Interviewee**: The experience I had with it is that in rainy season,
it was working, but not as in dry season. In the rainy season, rainwater
was getting into the digester hole, so we thought that was the reason it
was not working as effective as in the dry season.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get in the wet season?

**Interviewee**: There was not much difference. I remember this other
day they came in January or December \[rainy season\] and they found me
in the fields. They called me in, and I started the stove and it
produced strong fire.

**Interviewer**: So the difference wasn't a lot?

**Interviewee**: Yeah -- even in rainy season it was working.

**Interviewer**: What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The one challenge I had with it is that sometimes I did
not have enough cow manure, so I was failing to feed it as directed.

**Interviewer**: But, I imagine that you had the same number of cow or
if you had less, the difference was not much.

**Interviewee**: But, there are some times you go in a cow house and you
find very little manure, perhaps due to poor feeding. So, it\`s not
necessarily the number of cows, but feeding that determines the quantity
of cow manure.

**Interviewer**: What other challenges did you do face apart from
feeding?

**Interviewee**: Maybe the problem I had with the gas connector and
cracking of the gas pipe.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever call the installers? I can see on this
handover paper you were given 3 numbers of the installers.

**Interviewee**: The people who chose us advised that we should report
to them, and then they would report to their superiors, who would then
report to the installers.

**Interviewer**: How many times did you report to the VDC chair?

**Interviewee**: Twice. The first time when it started leaking gas at
the gas connector, and then when it stopped working.

**Interviewer**: I do not if I have heard you correctly. I recall the
first time when you reported they came to fix. What happened the second
time?

**Interviewee**: I think the second time \[name redacted\] came and said
he would report to \[name redacted\]. But, when he reported to the
installers they were like they would come.

**Interviewer**: Sure, have you seen something like this \[table of
intervention\]?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: What do you think about this kind of information and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee**: Of course, it would have helped us, because we would
have been following whatever guidance which ison this paper.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs now? You mentioned
that you use trees around, right?

**Interviewee**: Yes, when we want to cook these days we use the trees
around. As you can see, some of trees are not big enough to be used for
building purposes, so we cut them for firewood. Then, we also use dry
pigeon peas plants and maize stalks.

**Interviewer**: Do you still use manure as fertilizer for your crops?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we still do that.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How much
did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: I have just forgotten how much it was, but they told
me.

**Interviewer**: K200,000, K400,000 or K1,000,000?

**Interviewee**: I can't really remember, but it was in hundreds I
think.

**Interviewer**: Who provided the money?

**Interviewee**: They mentioned that it was an NGO, but I have forgotten
its name.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No, it is only that I worked on it and paid the workers
I hired. I can also think of the bricks and cow manure provided. But,
the installers provided most of the things.

**Interviewer**: You have said you did the digging alone?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: You also did the masonry work alone?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: Apart from these, what else did you do?

**Interviewee**: Maybe sourcing cow manure, and then preparing
feedstock. There was not any other work besides this.

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: When the things came, we did not bother to ask them
where the things came from.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion do you think it is from here?

**Interviewee**: It is not from here.

**Interviewer**: Why did you say that?

**Interviewee**: The plastic of the digester bag looked thick and very
durable. So, I would think it was from abroad. Then, I also think that
some of the things were from here, for example, the gas pipe because it
did not last long as I expected. Talking of the cost of the reactor, I
would really appreciate, if you could tell me the cost of it.

**Interviewer**: Now, some cost K600, 000, some even over a million, but
it depends on the size. And, since I don't know the exact size of your
digester I can't tell you its exactly cost. Did the digester help you
save money?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it did.

**Interviewer**: Please explain to me.

**Interviewee**: It helped us save money because, generally, there are
certain times we do not cut trees. So we buy firewood from our friends
from Mozambique at all cost. I mean, we grow tobacco, so we sometimes
use the trees economically and specifically for curing tobacco and
construction of barns only.

**Interviewer**: How often do you buy firewood?

**Interviewee**: We mostly use maize stalks and the firewood from
within. So, sometimes especially in rainy season we buy, for example,
firewood of K2000 and we use it for a month or two.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with 3 questions. What was the biggest
change in your life the time you had biogas?

**Interviewee**: I was very happy to see it working, and if it had
continued, I would have been very happy because I could have saved many
things, for example, money and trees. Also, if it had continued our
lives would have changed greatly because we do not have electricity
here. So, if it had continued, we would have had power to use for lights
and other electric appliances.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I can only say that if it had worked for long it would
have helped me a lot. But, the problem is that it did not work long.

**Interviewer**: So you think it is useful if it can work for a long
time?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, if it works and continues.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think it did not continue?

**Interviewee**: It did not continue because of the gas connector as
well as the pipes -- Those parts were not durable.

**Interviewer**: Do you think biogas has a future in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: I personally think that it has no future because supply
of cow manure is not always constant. There are certain times when cow
manure becomes scarce, and you wonder how is that possible even possible
when the number of livestock is the same. So, I think many people would
fail to manage it because of manure. So, it is not necessarily that you
have the cows, but cow manure production depends on cow management, and
cow management is not an easy thing.

**Interviewer**: I see. If you could have designed your own energy or
waste intervention, what would you have chosen instead? I can see you
have solar panels now.

**Interviewee**: I think solar technology is a better option.

**Interviewer**: Why do you say that?

**Interviewee**: It is because it gets its energy for from something
that is ever-present and not difficult to find as we saw with biogas.

**Interviewer**: Where does it get its power?

**Interviewee**: It gets its power from the sun.

**Interviewer**: That's was my last question. Do you have anything to
say before we close?

**Interviewee**: My last word is a plea. We tried biogas and we worked
hard to overcome its many obstacles. Now, I would like to ask for a
different alternative like solar technology. People are using solar
panels in communities and its working. Some people have been given solar
panels and we see that they are benefiting. So, for us who managed
biogas; for us who handled manure without gloves, but gotten anything,
we should be considered. After all the hard work, nothing beneficial
happened to us. So, in case of a new intervention, consideration of a
new technology should be given to the people who worked for nothing on
biogas project as a consolation. In short, the project implementers
should consider us with a new technology. And, when they are bringing
the technology, they should come directly to the people because there is
a lot of politics. I think, they only gave us biogas because others
would not have managed. If it was something easy an appealing, I'm sure
I would not have got it.

**Interviewer**: I understand you. Thanks a lot for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome. Thanks for coming too.
