**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 51**

**Date: October 1, 2022**

**Interviewer**: First question, where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: \[Stays long without response\]

**Interviewer**: I've told you that I have come from Blantyre, Poly.
Where did the installers say they came from?

**Interviewee**: Have I not forgotten? I have forgotten. But, before the
installersleft the place, they gave me a paper with their names on it. I
don't have the paper here though; it's at my other place.

**Interviewer**: Okay, who funded it?

**Interviewee**: They said it was a non-government organization

**Interviewer**: What's the name of the organization?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came?

**Interviewee**: They came 2 people. When they came, they asked us to
dig a hole and gather feedstock.

**Interviewer**: How many of you dug the hole and gathered feedstock?

**Interviewee**: It was 3 of us; my elder sister, brother and me.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to finish that work?

**Interviewee**: It took us three days to dig the hole.

**Interviewer**: Do you remember how big the hole was?

**Interviewee**: It was 1 meter deep and the diameter was roughly 1
meter too.

**Interviewer**: How much manure and water did they ask you to find?

**Interviewee**: They told us to find a lot of manure and water. So,
when they came we mix cow manure and water to make suitable slurry.

**Interviewer**: How many bags or buckets of cow manure did you find?

**Interviewee**: We found a lot of cow manure. I believe we managed to
gather 8 bags (50kg) of cow manure.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's a lot. Where did you get the manure?

**Interviewee**: There is a small grassy floodplain somewhere there
where all the cows from this area usually graze. All the herdsmen
usually go there and do there thing. So, we used to go there around 5:00
PM to collect cow manure. And, some we got from our cow house; we also
got some from neighbors within.

**Interviewer**: How many cows did you have that time?

**Interviewee**: I had 4 cows.

**Interviewer**: How far is the grassy floodplain from here?

**Interviewee**: It's behind those white houses you are seeing there.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that's like 1 kilometer from here. From the 8 bags
you got, how many bags did you get from your cow house?

**Interviewee**: Maybe, I got 1 or 2 bags. But, most of the manure we
got from the grassy grazing place.

**Interviewer**: How many were you were involved in this task?

**Interviewee**: It was 3 of us. And after we got the manure, we kept it
the bags while waiting for the installers to come.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take them to come?

**Interviewee**: It didn't take long. It didn't take more than a week. I
think it was 3 days.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you use, and where did you get the
water?

**Interviewee**: We used to want drum of water and some buckets. On top
of that, we also used rainwater because it rained that day. And, most of
the water we used was rainwater.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you were very lucky -- you started with luck on
your side. Where did you get other water?

**Interviewee**: We got it from the borehole.

**Interviewer**: Is it far?

**Interviewee**: No, it's not far. It's there

**Interviewer**: That's like 300 meters. How were you selected as a
beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: We just saw the people coming with our brother. Then,
they explained to us that wanted to bring a digester. And, they advised
us to find cow manure and to dig a hole for the digester bag. They also
commented that it was easier for us to run the digester because we had
cows. After they left, that's when we immediately started the work.

**Interviewer**: How was the selection process like? Were the chiefs
involved?

**Interviewee**: I don't know if the Chief's did the selection. But, I
only know that the installers installed a couple of digesters in
different villages in this area through the area development committee
(ADC).

**Interviewer**: Oh, I get it. So, it's the ADC, which identified the
beneficiaries since they have information regarding community members,
so they must have known who was capable. You had the right to deny it.
So why did you accept it here?

**Interviewee**: I accepted it because they told me that with the
digester I would be able to get digestate that works as fertilizer. They
also said I would be able to get lighting as well energy for electric
appliances. So, when I heard that I accepted it and I was happy to see
how it was going to work out.

**Interviewer**: So you accepted it because they told you that you would
be able to use it for lighting, fertilizer, for your TV, and obviously
to use it for cooking...

**Interviewee**: Definitely!

**Interviewer**: Did you know anything about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't!

**Interviewer**: Apart from what you have told me, what else did you
expect from the digester?

**Interviewee**: It is basically what I've discussed. I expected to use
it for cooking, for lighting, and as a source of energy for charging my
phone. But, some people asked me this kind of question too. Then, they
asked me if the installers had taken me for training to learn thoroughly
about it. So, I told them that we had never gone for training, and that
they only thing that they taught us was how to make feedstock. As a
beneficiary, I was never taken for training, and I never sat somewhere
together with the other beneficiaries to learn about biogas. On the day
they came to assemble and commission the digester, they only told me to
feed it with 3 buckets of manure. But, when I tried to feed it myself, I
didn't see it working because the fire was not taking long to go off.
Sometimes, the fire was even going off whilst I was cooking (laughs)

**Interviewer**: What were you doing after that?

**Interviewee**: I thought I was not feeding the digester enough, so I
decided to put even more cow manure (laughs).

**Interviewer**: You have said some people came to ask you questions,
who are these people?

**Interviewee**: Some people came to do research on biogas.

**Interviewer**: Where did they come from?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember.

**Interviewer**: How many were they?

**Interviewee**: They were 3 people, and they came with \[name
redacted\] the former ADC chair.

**Interviewer**: You are saying you didn't receive any training. But,
you were only told how to make feedstock and have to switch it on and
off. Apart from this, what else were you told?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us how to switch it on and off. After
that, they told us to put a load on top of the digester bag, if we saw
that the fire was little. This was done to increase pressure in the bag
and intensify the gas. However, nothing changed even if we did put a
load on the digester bag. Then, I notice that the point of connection
between the bag and the gas pipe \[gas connector\] separated, so gas was
leaking. Then, I told my brother about the problem and he sealed the
part with an adhesive. Still, things didn't improve, and it never worked
as it worked on the first day.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to notice that there was some
sort of problem at the gas connector?

**Interviewee**: I think it took two months for that part to separate.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the reactor did you were
after what they told you?

**Interviewee**: I felt like we lacked skills to operate and maintain it
because even when it malfunctioned we didn't know what to do. That is
why when it started misbehaving; we started feeding it with more than 3
buckets against their instructions, because I felt like 3 buckets
weren't enough. As per instruction, we had to feed it every time we saw
that gas was running out of the bag, just as you do with cars. When you
see that your car is out of gas, you put gas. In the same way, they told
us that when there was no gas in the bag, we should be feeding it. But,
when I fed it nothing was happening, and that's why I started feeding it
more than what they told me.

**Interviewer**: Okay, great. We will talk more about how it worked, the
problems you faced and how you tried to solve the problems later. But,
for the time being, how did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: I was using firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get it?

**Interviewee**: We just gather firewood around.

**Interviewer**: How much firewood do you collect?

**Interviewee**: We collect a lot of wood because we try to gather
enough firewood to meet all our needs. But, right now, we are using
maize stalks too because firewood is expensive.

**Interviewer**: Oh, so you buy firewood?

**Interviewee**: We buy, and some we collect ourselves.

**Interviewer**: Where do you collect the firewood?

**Interviewee**: We go to the mountains, but we pay tips. So, we choose
to go there instead of buying the firewood, which is sold around here
because it's cheaper.

**Interviewer**: Whom do you pay the tips to?

**Interviewee**: To the people who are responsible for looking after the
mountains.

**Interviewer**: How far is it from here?

**Interviewee**: Is it very far from here, and sometimes we even go to
Mozambique to get firewood.

**Interviewer**: If you leave around 6:00 in the morning, what time do
you return?

**Interviewee**: We come around this time \[after 4 PM\]

**Interviewer**: Oh, after leaving in the morning?

**Interviewee**: Oh, yeah. And, we leave as early as 3 in the morning,
and if we go around that time, we get home at the 1 or 2 PM.

**Interviewer**: Why leaving the early? And, do you feel vulnerable?

**Interviewee**: It's okay. Nothing has ever happened to us. And, we go
early to come back early.

**Interviewer**: You have said you pay little money, what's this little
money?

**Interviewee**: Some ask us to pay K500, some K300.

**Interviewer**: You have said that sometimes you buy firewood, how much
firewood do you buy in a month?

**Interviewee**: Around this time of the year, we don't buy or search
for firewood because we use dry pigeon peas plants and maize stalks and
cobs. In general, we rarely buy firewood.

**Interviewer**: You are saying you had cows; do you still have cows?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I have

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your feedstock before the digester?

**Interviewee**: I was getting the manure to the farm.

**Interviewer**: Some say animal manure is not a good fertilizer, what's
your take?

**Interviewee**: The manure somehow works, but it depends how you use
it.

**Interviewer**: How do you use it?

**Interviewee**: During this dry season and before making ridges, we put
the manure in the farms. And, close to rainy season, we make ridges
thereby burying the manure in the soil, and then plant maize. I do this
and I see that it helps.

**Interviewer**: Let's talk about how it worked. How long did it take to
start it up?

**Interviewee**: The installers came and placed the digester bag in the
hole in December of 2016. Then, in January of 2017, they came to
commissioning it. But, I have forgotten how many weeks exactly it was. I
remember that after the bag was placed in the hole and fed, it started
inflating to the point that it rose above ground. And, the more the sun
shone, the more the bag was getting full. It was reaching a point that
when pinched no dent could appear on the bag. And, that was the point
when they came and assembled everything. Afterwards, they taught us how
to switch it on and off, and showed us the gas valves that needed to be
opened to use it.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commission? How did it work after
lighting it with a matchstick?

**Interviewee**: They didn't even light it up with a matchstick. They
only turned on the switch knob and flame started. It was only lit up by
striking a matchstick when it failed to light up the flame on its own

**Interviewer**: Oh?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was the flame was lighting up without striking
a matchstick.

**Interviewer**: You mean you are starting it up without striking a
matchstick?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, most of the times the flame was lighting up
without striking a matchstick

**Interviewer**: Oh, by just turning it on?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, once you turned it on it was producing a sparking
sound and it was lighting up the flame on its own. Once the sparking
sound was made, the fire was starting.

**Interviewer**: How much cooking time did you get on the first day when
it was commissioned by the installers?

**Interviewee**: It worked and I even cooked it beans \[more than 2
hours\].

**Interviewer**: It got cooked?

**Interviewee**: It was cooked perfectly, and I was excited. And, I
thought my cooking needs were solved. Many people who passed along the
way were asking me about the digester. At first when the digester bag
had not rose above the ground people thought the pipes were for water
supply. But, when the people saw the bag full, many people became
curious to know what it was and they were coming to ask me what it was.
So, on the first day, things were good, and I even cooked beans - it was
okay.

**Interviewer**: What time was it?

**Interviewee**: It was in the afternoon.

**Interviewer**: Did you cook nsima on it afterwards?

**Interviewee**: No, the fire was very little after cooking beans.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how did it work on the second day?

**Interviewee**: After cooking beans, the bag shrunk. Then, I made
feedstock and fed it. On that day, I warmed water for bathing but the
fire started declining, then I closed it. The following day, I fed it
again in the morning hoping that I could use it in the afternoon to cook
nsima. But, I took it out once I saw that the fire was not enough
(laughs). Then, I proceeded to cook the nsima on firewood. After that
day, I continued feeding the digester, but the bag was only getting full
when there was the sun. And even when it was a sunny day, but once the
sun disappeared, the bag was shrinking even without using it.

**Interviewer**: You have said a digester is like a car, it needs
refilling to keep on running or to use it. How often were you told to
feed it and with how much feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I was told to feed it daily with 3 buckets (20 liters)
cow manure to which I was adding water to make suitable slurry.
Afterwards, I was adding 40 liters of water separately.

**Interviewer**: How much water were you adding to make suitable slurry
of 20kgs of cow manure?

**Interviewee**: The manure was always fresh, so I was adding less
water, probably less than 5 liters.

**Interviewer**: You have described how it worked for the first three
days. How did it work afterwards?

**Interviewee**: After the third day, I never used it for cooking. I
tried to feed it, but every time the sun disappeared, the fire was also
dying.

**Interviewer**: Did you ever try to cook when the sun was on?

**Interviewee**: It's what I\'m saying, every time I put a pot on the
stove, the fire was declining and eventually dying whilst the food I was
trying to cook was not cooked.

**Interviewer**: So we can say you only cooked on it once and that was
on the first day?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it only worked one day.

**Interviewer**: How many people lived here that time?

**Interviewee**: It was my brother, 3 children and me.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements? First, you were
supposed to feed the digester daily with cow manureand water. Apart from
that, what were other operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They didn't say anything apart from that. They only
added that if we failed to feed the digester, it would not produce gas.
I remember he used a certain expression. He said that in the digester
there are babies and the babies need feeding. If I don't feed the
digester, the babies would die. And, when the babies die, I would get
any flame. So, I was trying everyday to feed it to keep the babies alive
(laughs)

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) you had hungry babies who couldn't get enough.
Every day you had to feed them.

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) Yeah, and when the sun was out, the bag was
producing a sound like something was boiling in the bag, and then it was
releasing digestate at the outlet.

**Interviewer**: Oh, it produced digestate. How did you make the outlet?

**Interviewee**: We dug a hole, so that digestate would flow into it.

**Interviewer**: Did you make a hole or something like a drain?

**Interviewee**: We made a hole, so that digestate would be collected in
it. But, the hole had a drainage channel where excess digestate would
overflow in.

**Interviewer**: Did you use the digestate as fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: I heard that the digestate could be used as fertilizer,
but I didn't know how to use it.

**Interviewer**: They didn't tell you how to use it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: And, you didn't even ask?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, because they told us that they would be coming to
monitor. So, we thought we would learn some of the things later.

**Interviewer**: Did they come back?

**Interviewee**: They came but it was after I abandoned it. I abandoned
after the inlet blocked, so it started returning feedstock at the inlet.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to block?

**Interviewee**: After two months or so. And, after it blocked, I
abandoned

**Interviewer**: Who came? Is it the installers or the people who came
to ask you questions?

**Interviewee**: It was not the installers. It was the people, who came
to ask us questions.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: I was responsible.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I was mixing the feedstock with hands.

**Interviewer**: Like how? Didn\`t they give you gloves?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't

**Interviewer**: Then, how were you doing it?

**Interviewee**: We used to put cow manure in a bucket, add water, stir
and mix with hands to break the lumps. After the feedstock was
thoroughly mixed, we poured it in the digester bag. We didn't use a
stick because it was time consuming, yeah.

**Interviewer**: Didn't you feel gross? I mean, it\'s not easy to handle
cow manure with bare hands?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) we wanted the digesters, so we couldn't do
other wise.

**Interviewer**: How did you feel about feeding the digester on a daily
basis?

**Interviewee**: If it was working properly, then it wouldn't have been
a problem because I had a cow house within. Everyday morning, I was
simply going to my cow house, collect manure and make feedstock. It
wasn't tough as the first day where we had to go to search for cow
manure elsewhere. And, that time too water wasn't a problem because it
was in the rainy season.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you that it is hard to work in the rainy
season unlike in the summer?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't tell us that.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: When gas started leaking at the gas connector, I simply
told my brother. I describe to him that when it was sunny and the bag
was full, gas was leaking at the connector. I could see water bubbles
and feel gas escaping. So, that's when he sealed the area with an
adhesive.

**Interviewer**: Did it work?

**Interviewee**: It didn't really work, and I only kept feeding it
because I did not want to kill the babies, and I was expecting to be
trained on it. Then, after some time, I just decided to abandon it since
I wasn't using it anymore.

**Interviewer**: Did they leave you their phone numbers to call when
there was a problem?

**Interviewee**: I think their numbers were on the paper they left us.

**Interviewer**: I think on the bag too, there was their numbers. Did
you meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: It didn't reach my needs because I never used it in the
morning in the afternoon and evening. And even when I tried to cook on
it, I had to finish cooking somewhere on firewood.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The main challenge is that I was trying to feed it when
it wasn't producing gas. So, I felt like I was working for nothing. I
was working for nothing -- and you know when you are working you expect
to get something out, but I never got anything out - and I was only
hoping that they would come one day and train us on biogas to get
skills, but we never got the skills.

**Interviewer**: Again, how did you know that there was a leakage at the
gas connector?

**Interviewee**: When there was sunlight and the bag was full, water was
coming out of the bag.

**Interviewer**: And, this took two months for you to notice?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: And, that's when you told your brother to fix it?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How many times did you feed it after it stopped
working?

**Interviewee**: It was plenty of time

**Interviewer**: Maybe 10 days or 2 weeks

**Interviewee**: It was more than that. It was 2 months or so

**Interviewer**: You mean you kept feeding it for 2 months whilst it
wasn't working

**Interviewee**: I felt that the bacteria in the reactor would die
(laughs). So after I gave up and stopped feeding it, the bag kept on
shrinking to the point it could not rose above ground, and eventually it
shrunk completely.

**Interviewer**: Have you seen something like this \[table of
intervention\]?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this kind of information and do
you think it would have helped in your case?

**Interviewee:** It could have helped because we would have using it to
know what was wrong with our digester. For example, that time I thought
that, I wasn't feeding it with enough feedstock and I fed it more to
improve it. So, if I had other information, I'm sure I would have tried
that whatever information was on this paper and see how things were
going to pan out.

**Interviewer**: You are saying you started feeding it more than that
you were told i.e. you started feeding it with more than three buckets
of cow manure.How much exactly did you feed it with that time?

**Interviewee**: I started feeding it 5 or 4 buckets of cow manure,
hoping that things would change (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) that's something else. How much water did you
add to this?

**Interviewee**: 4 buckets (20 liters) of water.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of digester?

**Interviewee**: Hmm

**Interviewer**: Let's suppose the installers call you today to ask
youabout the digester, what would you say?

**Interviewee**: I would tell them that the digester stopped working
long ago. And that I tried to do everything you told me, but still
nothing worked. And, if I have removed the bag, it's only last year.

**Interviewer**: Why did you remove the bag? And, what did you do with
it?

**Interviewee**: What time the digester bag was close to the kitchen,
and the kitchen collapsed. So, we just thought of taking it out. Also,
our cows used to trample on the digester bag, so to avoid injuring the
cows, my brother suggested that I should take it out.

**Interviewer**: Is the bag damaged?

**Interviewee**: No, I did put the bag in a shelter after it I removed
it from the hole. It's only this year that the roof of the shelter was
taken out, and that why it's exposed anyhow today.

**Interviewer**: How did you remove it without cutting it?

**Interviewee**: We hired people who dug around it and removed it. After
it was removed, the people were stepping on the bag and manure was
coming out of it pipes.

**Interviewer**: So you didn't cut it.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we didn't cut it because we were sure that the
people would come back and maybe work it out in a different way.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs now that it's not
working?

**Interviewee**: We use anenergy efficient cook stove.

**Interviewer**: Does it work?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it helps save firewood. I mean, with a 3-stone
open stove, a lot of firewood is lost through the three openings. While,
our energy efficient stove has only one opening, so flames are only
concentrated onto the pot.

**Interviewer**: Do you still have cows?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I have.

**Interviewer:** How many do you have now?

**Interviewee:** We have four big ones and three small ones.

**Interviewer**: How do you manage your feedstock now that it is not
working?

**Interviewee**: We still use it in our farms as fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. We have
about five or six questions remaining. How much did the reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They didn't say the amount. They just said the reactor
is expensive.

**Interviewer**: What about who provided the money for that?

**Interviewee**: I think they mentioned that it was a non-governmental
organization.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: After we used our buckets to make feedstock to start it
up, we devoted the buckets to biogas.

**Interviewer**: Did you line it up i.e. was any masonry work involved?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Apart from digging the hole, sourcing manure and making
feedstock, what other work was involved?

**Interviewee**: Nothing!

**Interviewer**: What special items you had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: Mm-hmm that I don't know. I wasn't told where it's
from.

**Interviewer**: When you look at it, where do you think it is from?

**Interviewee**: It had many items, so I couldn't tell. For example, it
had a bottle for trapping water in the system. It had another bottle for
stopping bad smell. It had a stove, but the stove that was assembled
here was different from the one that was installed at Mr. White... In
this community, only 2 of got the digester. I heard people from other
area too like Nambazo were installed digester the digesters. I didn't
have a chance to see the one at Nambazo, but I heard that one didn't
produce fire at all.

**Interviewer**: Did the reactor save you money the time you had it?

**Interviewee**: No, it didn't work to the point I could have saved
money.

**Interviewer**: We are the remaining with two questions. What is your
opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I do believe that the digesters probably worked where
they came from. As far as me, I expected to use it for cooking, to get
fertilizer, and to use it for light. But, none of that happened here.
So, my question is what happens when it doesn't work as in my case.
(Laughs) Does it end here? If it ends here, why did they accept to lose
so much money on digester that didn't help people? I mean, as far as I
know, no digester worked around this part. There is no one who can stand
here and say he or she benefited from this -- not even one!

**Interviewer**: Why do you think of the installers or project
implementers never came back after spending a lot of money on these
things like you have rightly said?

**Interviewee**: On that, I don't know. I don't know how they organized
their project. I just don't know why they didn't follow up. But, I can't
say we failed, because it's not possible for all of us to fail. So, I
have many questions in my head on that too. I do think to myself where
did I get it wrong, but I think it not me because other people too
failed. I have even asked them if they went for training but they didn't
too, Just like me. They were only told how to prepare feedstock and how
to turn it on. That was all.

**Interviewer**: If you could have designed your own waste or energy
intervention, what could you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: Here when you talk of cooking you think of firewood and
charcoal. So, I think energy efficient wood stoves are good alternatives
as they save firewood.

**Interviewer**: I see similarities in the energy efficient stove
projects and biogas project. The one major difference is that biogas
didn't work while the energy stoves worked. How do you differentiate
between terms of execution of the project itself?

**Interviewee**: The two projects were different indeed in regards to
impact. With biogas, despite that they gave us for free, we didn't see
an impact -- the impact was zero. On efficient stove, the project
implementers were organized and they even managed to attract us to buy
the stoves. Now, we are using the stoves and it looks like we will use
the stoves for along time, and the impact is great and positive too.
Now, we use less firewood as compared to the time we were using 3-stone
wood stove. Of course, it's still not easy to find firewood, but we save
a lot of firewood on efficient stoves.

**Interviewer**: To go out and search for firewood and to go to prepare
the feedstock, which is easier for you?

**Interviewee**: It's better to make feedstock because the cow house is
within and you don't buy or pay any money to get the manure. With
firewood, you need money to access it at least.

**Interviewer**: Lastone, you have said the digesters were given to a
number of people, but no one was able to use it. Why do you think of you
failed?

**Interviewee**: Mm-hmm, personally, I feel like I was lacking
somewhere.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: I feel like I didn't have the skills to operate and run
it. I honestly feel the digesters were tried somewhere and worked. So,
the project implementers should have given as the necessary skills and
information attained in those areas. I feel like if we were given the
necessary skills, we would have reached a point of using it for lighting
as well as a source of fertilizer too. So, we failed because we were not
given the necessary skills to run it.

**Interviewer**: In closing, what are your last words?

**Interviewee**: My last word goes to the project implementers. I would
like to tell them that when they start a project, they should be able to
finish it. Everything should be done right there and then. I feel like
it was not rightto give us the digesters without training. They should
have told us how to use the digestate too. And, if they had told me how
to make and use the digestate, I'm sure I could have continued with it
even though it wasn't producing fire for cooking. With the way the price
of fertilizer has gone up, you can't do otherwise (laughs)

**Interviewer**: Thanks, aunt for the interview, I have to hit the road,
it's getting dark.

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming. Have a safe journey.

**Interviewer**: Thanks. Stay safe too.
