**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 54**

**Date: October 1, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: The project implementers told us that they were trying
out the digesters, and that they came from Chancellor College.

**Interviewer**: Who funded it?

**Interviewee**: They did not tell us the organization that provided the
money. They just told us that they wanted to try out the digesters.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee**: I have just forgotten. I think his name was \[name
redacted\], I'm not sure though.

**Interviewer**: Let me put it this way. How many people from the
installation company came?

**Interviewee**: There were two people. Every beneficiary had two
installers, so the whole team was composed of eight or ten people who
went four or five other beneficiaries. I remember that the name of man
as \[name redacted\], but I don't remember the name of the woman. I am
sure husband would have remembered their names, because he was the one
who was interacting with them.

**Interviewer**: What was your role?

**Interviewee**: When the installers came, they simply advise us to dig
a 1-meter hole. After that, they placed the digester bag in the hole,
and then assembled the outlet and inlet pipes as well as a green pipe
and a stove. Then, they advised us to make me feedstock and feed the
digester afterwards. We fed the digester bag with two drums of cow
manure, and we waited for a week to start using it.

**Interviewer**: How many people from side did the work?

**Interviewee**: Three people dug the hole; my husband and my two boys.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take them?

**Interviewee**: The soil was dry and compact that time, so it took them
four days.

**Interviewer**: So after a week or so, they came to place the bag and
assemble the pipes and the other fittings?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: We have so many people and households in this
community. How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: They told us the community had many people, but they
wanted people who interested and willing to manage the digester. So, we
were basically chosen because of our interest and commitment.

**Interviewer**: What was the selection process? Or, how were they able
to separate the willing and committed from those who weren't willing?

**Interviewee**: There was no selection procedure. I think \[name
redacted\] \[Area Development Committee chair\] identified and selected
us based on our activeness in doing things. I think, I was the only one
in \[location redacted\] that was chosen. But, in total about 10 people
were chosen in T/A \[Traditional Authority\] Chiwalo. Thus, for a start,
they wanted 10 people. After that, more people would have been chosen.
Thus, there was no selection procedure; they just chose people who they
thought were active under the recommendation of \[name redacted\]. Also,
they chose people who were at least close to me road, so that the
project implementers could easily reach them.

**Interviewer**: Is it true that you are active or you were active?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it's true.

**Interviewer**: How can I believe that?

**Interviewee**: (Laughs) you can believe this by the simple fact that
I've told you that you haven't found everything intact because my
husband passed on. My husband was a hard-working man, and if he was
alive, you would have found everything.

**Interviewer**: So, he was always involved in community projects?

**Interviewee**: He was always active and present in every community
project.

**Interviewer**: Like which projects?

**Interviewee**: In every community project.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: They told us that they were trying out the digester, so
were expecting to benefit at the end of it. So, at the end, we expected
to use it for cooking.

**Interviewer**: So they made it clear to you that you were trying out
the digester?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us that they were from Chanco and were
trying out the digesters. So, we had huge expectation to see what was
going to happen -- so, we were expecting lights too.

**Interviewer**: Even though they were trying out the digester, I
believe there were some things you were told to expect from the
digester. What were you told to expect by the installers?

**Interviewee**: We used it for cooking. And, they told us that in
modern age people should not rely on firewood for cooking. Instead, we
should start relying on biogas for cooking to conserve for the
environment. That is what they told us.

**Interviewer**: Do you think biogas is the way to protect the
environment?

**Interviewee**: Biogas is a way to save the environment. Nowadays, we
don't have trees in the mountains because of high population growth. So,
biogas is a good solution to that especially to people who are
interested and committed to use it and to save the environment.

**Interviewer**: So you think people need to be committed to realize its
potential?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, people need to be keen on this, and committed too
to realize its potential. But, if people like you want to advance the
project, you should consider bringing solar panels to overcome the
difficulties we faced. The main challenge we had with biogas that time
was sourcing manure -- it is very hard to source cow manure. So, we
would like to have a solution like solar technology and we would
appreciate it a lot.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: We didn't receive any at all, and I just feel like the
project implementers were not committed and lazy in their doing. They
didn't tell us how to fix it. If there was any problem, when we tried to
call them, they didn't respond - The installers were very lazy -- they
just installed the digester and left. So, when we started using it, we
didn't know what to do; how to act and where to go, if it stopped
functioning -- they were so lazy.

**Interviewer**: When you say lazy, what do you mean? Could you please
elaborate on that?

**Interviewee**: I'm saying this because they just installed it and
showed us how to use it. But, they never came back to follow up and see
what was happening.

**Interviewer**: Apart from being taught how to use it, and make
feedstock, what else?

**Interviewee**: They taught us how to control the fire on the stove.
Also, they told us that after feeding it, we should be waiting up to
12:00 noon after to use it. They digester relied on the sun; when the
sun was out cooking easy.

**Interviewer**: When they brought the digester, you had the right to
say no. you could have said thanks, but it's involving, no. Why did you
accept to build the digester here?

**Interviewee**: I accepted it because a person doesn't refuse
development; no one denies development from government -- no way! You
can't say no development.

**Interviewer**: Why shouldn't person say no to Development?

**Interviewee**: The government is there to serve the people. There job
is to look after our lives. So if the government decided to try the
digesters here, we wouldn't have said no.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: I didn't know about biogas. So it was not like a thing
we wanted. At that time, as a less privileged community, we wanted
electricity from Escom. We envy people living in communities where there
are electricity lines, without electricity people a hard life. We live a
hard life here.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you live a hard life?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: How?

**Interviewee**: We live a hard life. As you can see, there is no
electricity in this community and the road is very here. I think you
have seen it yourself.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, it\`s bad. How did you meet your energy needs
that time?

**Interviewee**: I was using maize stalks. Sometimes, I was using
firewood.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the firewood?

**Interviewee**: We get it from the forest

**Interviewer**: Which forest?

**Interviewee**: We get it from the forests around the mountain. But,
forest officials protect them.

**Interviewer**: So, what do you do?

**Interviewee**: We sometimes get tree branches from within -- we cut
trees from within, dry them and use them as firewood.

**Interviewer**: And, sometimes you just sneak into the forests?

**Interviewee**: Yeah (laughs). We just wait for them to knock off and
go... In regards to training, frankly speaking, I didn't go for
training, and if they can say they want people to go for training, I
would really appreciate it, if I could go.

**Interviewer**: You want training?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I want training.

**Interviewer**: How would you want training when the digester is dead?

**Interviewee**: I want to learn about biogas, and I would also like to
tell them my concerns and grievances -- I would like to tell them to
bring solar panels and electricity to use for cooking.

**Interviewer**: Why are community people, so obsessed with trainings?

**Interviewee**: Development can't come without training. For example,
in your case you can't just come and say I want to do this and that.
What you do is you would brief the people on your research, and then you
need to train the people to know what exactly what they are supposed to
do -- so that's it goes!

**Interviewer**: I can't agree more. Let me put it to you; you are
saying you want to go for biogas training, but it sounds to me like you
don't want biogas, you want solar panels or electricity. So my question,
do you want the training to learn biogas or something else i.e. the
money?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) No, we just go there! (Laughs heavily) So, the
money is just part of it. I mean, they can't just keep you there without
food allowance. We just go there with a heart to learn, but you money
just comes in because they can\'t just make you sit for hours for
nothing. Thus, they give the money to us to buy food, and to buy other
necessities like soap. That's how it is.

**Interviewer**: (Laughs) great! Do you buy charcoal?

**Interviewee**: No, I don\'t

**Interviewer**: Why not?

**Interviewee**: I don't have the money to buy charcoal.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you have cows when the digester was installed
here?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I had.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage the feedstock i.e. the cow manure?

**Interviewee**: We use it as fertilizer in our fields.

**Interviewer**: Some people say it doesn't help, so how do you use it?

**Interviewee**: Fertilizer is expensive these days, so you can't say it
does help. So, after harvesting, we go put the manure in the fields, and
when it's time to make ridge, we just mix it together with the soil.

**Interviewer**: Do you add in organic fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: If it's available we do, but fertilizer is hard to
find.

**Interviewer**: So when your name is included in the list of
agriculture input subsidy programme beneficiaries you do?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, definitely!

**Interviewer**: Let's talk about how it worked and how you started it
up. How much feedstock did you start it up with?

**Interviewee**: As I mentioned earlier, we started it up with it six
bags (50kgs) of fresh cow manure and two drums (200 liters) of water.

**Interviewer**: That's a lot of manure. How did you manage to get all
that manure?

**Interviewee**: I got three bags from my cow house, and the rest I got
from other people.

**Interviewer**: Like how far from here?

**Interviewee**: It's far; I got it from Ching'ani village.

**Interviewer**: How far is it?

**Interviewee**: When my boys went to collect manure on a bicycle around
9 or 10, they were coming somewhere after 12 noon.

**Interviewer**: Did you buy the manure?

**Interviewee**: No, but if it was these days I'm sure they would have
been selling us at K250 a bag.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) what has changed?

**Interviewee**: Everything is about money these days; only a greeting
is free these days

**Interviewer**: (laughs) where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We have two boreholes in this community; one is there
and the other one is at the end of the village. That's like 300 meters.
But, it was a lot of work and we even asked girls from neighbors to help
us.

**Interviewer**: Did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: What could we have paid them with? And it's good that
not everything was about money that time.

**Interviewer**: Okay, how long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: They only waited for 3 days to commission it after
feeding it with the first charge.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: At the first, it didn't work, then we called an \[name
redacted\], then it started working.

**Interviewer**: Was it the same day you commissioned it?

**Interviewee**: No, it was a different day.

**Interviewer**: So that time you tried it, were the installers or
\[name redacted\] there?

**Interviewee**: No, they weren't there. They just told us how to start
it.

**Interviewer**: So you were told how to start it, and that you should
start it after 3 days?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us to start it up when the bag was
full.

**Interviewer**: So, when tried it up and saw that it wasn't working you
called \[name redacted\]?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, then he suggested to my husband that maybe he was
doing something wrong, and he told him the correct way of doing it. And,
when he did what he was told, it worked.

**Interviewer**: What was the problem?

**Interviewee**: My husband was doing that, so I don't know where he got
it wrong. But, I think he said something like a pipe or gas valve at the
kitchen was the problem.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commissioning? Or, how much
cooking time did you get?

**Interviewee**: It worked the quite okay, but it had problems when
there was no sunlight. So every time we say that the bag was full we
were using it.

**Interviewer**: Let's talk about the cooking time were getting? Were
you able to cook porridge or tea in the morning?

**Interviewee**: I was able to cook porridge (15 - 20 minutes), but only
after 9 o'clock when the sun was out -- it was working when there was
sunlight.

**Interviewer**: How was your cooking like in a day?

**Interviewee**: In the morning, I had issues as I was waiting for the
sun. In the afternoon, I was able to cooknsima and side dish (1 -- 1
hour 30 minutes). But, in the evening when the sun was gone, the bag was
shrinking and it wasn't working.

**Interviewer**: How long did you use it?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, we used it for two years.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you mean in two years you were able to cook nsima,
side dish and porridge.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, for two year.

**Interviewer**: Aaah, then you are the first person to use it that
long.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and you can even ask \[name redacted\] there. He
even used his for quite a long time too.

**Interviewer**: Mmmh?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: You are the first person to use it the long...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but when it stopped working when we called them
they didn't come. And, that\'s why I have said that the installers were
lazy people.

**Interviewer**: How did you use the gas?

**Interviewee**: He used to the gas for cooking only.

**Interviewer**: How many people used the gas?

**Interviewee**: Six people.

**Interviewer**: What were maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: It didn't require a lot of things. After feeding it
with six bags of manure and two drums during the first charge, they
advised us to feed it with 2 buckets (40 liters) of cow manure every
day. So every day we were feeding it, and waiting for 9 o'clock to start
using it. So that's how it worked.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add?

**Interviewee**: The water was included in the 2 bucket; I was placing
about half cow manure in a bucket and then I filled water in the bucket
until suitable slurry was reached.

**Interviewer**: How were you doing it?

**Interviewee**: My son, I was doing that with my hands and without
gloves (laughs). After feeding, that's when we washed our hands.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you think gloves were necessary?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, but we still used bare hands because they didn't
give us gloves.

**Interviewer**: Did you feel that it was unhealthy? And, didn't you
feel disgusting?

**Interviewee**: Mm-hmm, I remember one time health officials came, and
they asked us and saw how we were preparing feedstock. Then, they said
it was unhygienic and didn't agree with that. Then, I told them that you
are coming from government, and the people who brought it here came from
the government as well, so if it's unhygienic then it's the government
that has brought poor hygiene here.... I remember, they were like our
compound was looking unpleasant and that it was attracting a lot of
flies - and I told them that the government that brought the digester
and it didn't come of our own accord. So, if we would get diseases, it's
the government's fault.

**Interviewer**: So, what happened?

**Interviewee**: They didn\'t do anything, we told them straight facts.

**Interviewer**: How did you design the outlet?

**Interviewee**: We just dug a hole, so that digestate would flow into.

**Interviewer:** What were you doing with the digestate?

**Interviewee**: They told us that we could use it as a fertilizer.

**Interviewer**: Did you use it as fertilizer?

**Interviewee**: Yes, I did.

**Interviewer**: Did it work?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it did.

**Interviewer**: Did you pre-treat the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: No, we were using fresh manure, so we used to do
everything on the spot.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was me together with my girls and boys. And, they
didn't express any resentment of handling cow manure.

**Interviewer**: Why?

**Interviewee**: They didn't express resentment because they were doing
what was best for their lives in that moment.

**Interviewer**: What were the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: That's why I say the installers were lazy people. And
if we are not using biogas today, it's because the installers didn't
train us. If they had taken the beneficiaries for training to teach them
how to fix issues, then things would have been different today.

**Interviewer**: Did you meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it did. It very much met my needs. In the late
morning hours, I was able to prepare breakfast, warm water for bathing.
In the afternoon, I was able cook nsima and side dish. It was only not
working in evening because it needed the sun to work. They bag was never
full when there was no sunlight and it wasn't working.

**Interviewer**: What time did you see the bag shrinking?

**Interviewee**: The bag was shrinking after 4 PM, when the sun was
going down.

**Interviewer**: Was it shrinking completely? Was the bag still
appearing above the ground?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was appearing above ground, it just that it
wasn't completely full as when there was sunlight.

**Interviewer**: How did you meet your needs in the evening?

**Interviewee**: I was getting tree branches from the trees around.

**Interviewer**: What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The one problem is what I have already told you, it was
very hard to find cow manure. The other thing was that health officials
didn't agree with its hygiene aspect. So, that's why I have said that if
this project is continuing they should consider bringing solar panels...
But, the main challenge was on sourcing manure. On top of this, we had
also a minor problem that concerned children. The children liked to
smear themselves with the cow dung when we were making feedstock.

**Interewer**: You have told me that you had cow house, then how come
you had challenges in sourcing cow manure?

**Interviewee**: Of course, we had a cow house, but we had very few
cows. So it was hard for us to collect the two buckets of cow manure in
a day. And, the surprising thing was that our two cows pooped more when
they were outside the cow house. So, it was tough to gather all the
manure together.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) when it rains, it pours. So, how did you cope?

**Interviewee**: Fearing that would sleep on an empty stomach, we were
going around seeking for cow manure from people who had cows. So, when
we added that manure with what we had it was somehow working. And when
we saw that the fire was dying we were trying as much as possible to go
fast, and when then fire was eventually off we used firewood.

**Interviewer**: So, this is how it was in its entire working life?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, yeah, but in some cases we were able to get the
manure from our cow house.

**Interviewer**: How did it stop working?

**Interviewee**: Strong winds blew the roof off and ended up cutting off
the green pipe. The cut was so severe that we couldn't fix it. After
that, we called the project implementers numerous times to report what
happened, and that we couldn't manage to fix it, but to no avail. So,
they never came and we eventually gave up.

**Interviewer**: Was the call going through or not?

**Interviewee**: When we called them, theirs number couldn't be reached.
I don't know if they changed their numbers or something.

**Interviewer**: Where exactly was the pipe damaged?

**Interviewee**: Our kitchen roof that year was blown off by strong
winds, and it damaged the pipe, so we couldn't have managed to do fix
it. And that\'s when we called the project implemented to come and fix
it. But, they never came and that's why we abandoned it.

**Interviewer**: Did you get smell of gas around?

**Interviewee**: We were getting odor at the outlet after an overflow
even before the pipes got damaged. And that's why healthy officials were
against it.

**Interviewer**: So it took two years?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we used it for 2 years.

**Interviewer**: Before I get to my next question, I want to be clear on
this. Did you use it for 2 years? How much cooking time did you get in
those 2 years?

**Interviewee**: We used it for two years, of course. If we had
breakfast food, we were using it in the morning and at lunch. But, in
the evening, we were not able to use it. So, sometimes when we went to
the fields, we would find the children cooking on biogas -- so it was a
joy tohave it.

**Interviewer**: That was amazing.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was so easy to use; you couldn't notice that
pot had been on the stove as it was clean and; it was more like cooking
on an electric stove.

**Interviewer**: Have something like this?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: This is information regarding common problems
associated with digesters, their causes and solutions. What do you think
about this kind of information and do you think it would have helped
you?

**Interviewee**: It would have helped us a lot.

**Interviewer**: How or why?

**Interviewee**: I\'ll give you an example. We had a washproject by
water mission there, and the project implementers took people for
training. They did train people on operation and maintenance of the
water facility. At the end, people were able to maintain the facility.
Also, in this community, we have a certain man called \[name redacted\];
he is very active and interested in such things, so organizations
usually get him to trainings. And, indeed, he fixes many problems in
this community. So if they had given us such information, or even if
they had trained, few individuals on maintenance like on the water
mission project, we would have reached to those people to help us fix
the problem.

**Interviewer**: You have said that projects that come here usually
involve trainings, and I totally agree with you that most projects of
this nature involve trainings. And, I personally think that a project of
this magnitude and nature should have had some sort of training for
things to work. Why do you think this project had no trainings?

**Interviewee**: I don't know why. I just don't know why. And we had no
opportunity to ask them why they didn't train us.

**Interviewer**: We are in October; let's suppose the project
implementers call you today to find out about the digester, what would
you say to them?

**Interviewee**: I would tell them that the digester you gave me it's no
longer working. It stopped working because strong winds blew off the
roof and eventually cut off the green pipe. Then, I called you but you
didn't come. So, I'm not currently using the digester because you did
not give me the expertise to maintain it.

**Interviewer**: What was key cause to the failure of your digester?

**Interviewee**: The problem is not the project implementers were lazy
people. If the project implementers were not lazy and if they were
coming to follow up on us, I'm sure many people would have adopted the
digesters. And, I feel like we are not to blame for its failure, and
that the project implementers are totally responsible.

**Interviewer**: It sounds like when you want to cook these days you use
the same old methods --you use firewood, maize stalks, right?

**Interviewee**: That's true.

**Interviewer**: And you still use cow manure as fertilizer in the
fields, right,?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of the interview. How much
did reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: Honestly speaking, I don't know anything about that.
Maybe my husband was told, but I'm not aware. Or, maybe \[name
redacted\] knows.

**Interviewer**: Okay, did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: No, we only contributed human power, which we used in
digging the hole, and in sourcing and preparing feedstock. And we had no
problems with that because it was our thing.

**Interviewer**: Again, who dug it?

**Interviewee**: My husband dug it with the support of my two boys.

**Interviewer**: You didn't hire anyone else to help you dig?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't.

**Interviewer**: Did you line the hole? Or, was any masonry work
involved?

**Interviewee**: No.

**Interviewer**: Were you told you to line it?

**Interviewee**: No, we weren't told. But, we had the plans to build a
structure of bricks and cement for the stove. It didn't happen because
we had no money to buy cement.

**Interviewer**: Apart from digging the hole, sourcing the feedstock and
preparing the feedstock, what other tasks did you do?

**Interviewee**: Nothing, that was all.

**Interviewer**: What special items have to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: I should say that I know. But, I think the bag is
outside the country.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think the bag might have been from outside?

**Interviewee**: I think the bag was written that it was from China.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) so you think the bag is from China and not
Phalombe?

**Interviewee**: If it was from Phalombe, I would have know. So, I think
the bag is from abroad.

**Interviewer**: I have to say that out of all the people I have talked
to you are the one who has used it for long. It is kind of surreal to
me. So in those two years did it help you to save money?

**Interviewee**: A lot. Since, we stopped relying on firewood. And, even
when there was rain, we didn't worry about using wet wood.

**Interviewer**: Two years is a lot of time. How did it work during the
rainy season and summer? Did it differ?

**Interviewee**: We were still using it in rain season long as the sun
shone after the rain; it needs the sun to work.

**Interviewer**: Here in Malawi, sometimes it rains all day, and
sometimes it can stay for a week without the sun shining especially
during the rainy and wet season. What were you doing after that?

**Interviewee**: We had to find plans to cook -- so we were forced to
cook using firewood.

**Interviewer**: So, it wasn't working sometimes?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, the bag wasn't getting full. It needs the sun.
So, it wasn't working.

**Interviewer**: Did you feed it in rain season? i.e. when it was
raining maybe for 3 or 5 days continuous when their was no sun, did you
fed it?

**Interviewee**: Yes, we were still feeding it because we knew that once
we stopped feeding it wouldn't produce gas. As a result, we wouldn't be
able to cook after the sun was out.

**Interviewer**: What was the biggest change in your life when it was
working?

**Interviewee**: The biggest change was that when we went to the fields
we did bother to look for firewood to cook afterwards. We were simply
turning on biogas.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: Biogas was good to our lives as it was helping us a lot
in terms of cooking. And we still want that type of cooking, so we would
really appreciate it if they could give us a solar panels this time. So,
that's our wish.

**Interviewer**: You are talking highly of Biogas, but you seem you want
solar panels more than biogas, why don't you want to keep using Biogas?

**Interviewee**: Like I said, we had challenges in finding cow manure.
Also, nowadays everything is about money, so you can't go about asking
for manure, people would obviously charge money, maybe K500 a bucket.
So, that's why we want solar technology because you can't pay for the
sun. Whom would you pay for the sun? (Laughs)

**Interviewer**: You have answered my next question, but I will still
ask you maybe to confirm you answer and maybe you can add something on
it. If you could have chosen your own energy or waste intervention, what
would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: You can only ask you for electricity. I can\'t ask you
for anything else, for example, water tap because if I ask for that it
wouldn't reach me first, but the chief. But, if it's electricity, it
will reach out to a lot of people and not just the chiefs.

**Interviewer**: Then how were you able to get biogas? Why didn't it go
to the chief the first?

**Interviewee**: It\'s because it needs a lot of effort, you can't just
say I'll get it, it needs commitment to make it work. And lucky enough
that time my husband was very active and hard working.

**Interviewer**: To cook on electricity you need money. Can you manage?

**Interviewee**: The government could see how best it would help us.

**Interviewer**: You want the government to do bring electricity and
electric stoves as well?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) they would need to bring both for sure.

**Interviewer**: Then, let's just go for solar panels, maybe. Why do you
exact want a solar technology?

**Interviewee**: I'm choosing a solar panel because it's cheaper than
electricity. Electricity is expensive; you need to pay bill and all
that. So, I think a solar technology is better than electricity.

**Interviewer**: That was my last question. Before I go, what are your
last words?

**Interviewee**: If the project implementers are still around and you
communicate with them, ask them to take \[name redacted\] for training
-- we want development here.

**Interviewer**: Noted. Thanks for the interview \[name redacted\].

**Interviewer**: Welcome.
