**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 55**

**Date: October 1, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: I simply saw \[name redacted\] coming here to ask me if
I was interested to own a digester. I told him I would like to own it,
and I told my boys about it and they said if the digester was going to
help us cook then we should go for it. Then we started sourcing manure
and bricks, and if I'm not mistaken, I spent about K25000 on that. Then
after that, I was buyingcow manure every day to feed the digester, so I
was spending about K300 a day because I had no cows that time. So, I can
say we spent a lot of money on feedstock and on trying toline the hole,
but I only used it even to cook side dish of fish \[20 minutes\] -- And,
I couldn't even boil water for bathing after (laughs) -- It was even
failing to heat up water, imagine (laughs).

**Interviewer**: Not even water?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, then, we went to the person who brought it here,
\[name redacted\] to tell him that they had given us a thing that wasn't
working. Then, he was like the digester at his house wasn't working as
well. Then, I asked another beneficiary too, and they also told me that
the digester wasn't working at their house as well. I asked another
beneficiary, and I was told the same thing too (laughs)\[interrupted by
a visitor\]

**Interviewer**: And you asked another beneficiary and you were told the
same thing?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, then I kept on trying to the point that I
realized that if I continued I would lose more money on buying cow
manure than I had already lost. Then, I abandoned it, and it didn't even
last for 4 months. But, I have to say I lost a lot of money on a thing
that didn't work. From there I have received 3 groups of people to
enquire about the digester. Then, last group came a year ago, and I told
them openly that I had failed and the thing didn't help me at all. Then,
they took pictures just like you have done and they went.

**Interviewer**: So, did \[name redacted\] tell you that the digesters
came from the government or from a non-governmental organization?

**Interviewee**: Mm-hmm, let me say I didn't ask. So, I don\'t know
whether it came from the government or NGO -- that I don't know!

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company came to
install this?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot of people because they came in a car. I
think here, they dropped 2 people to do the installation and the others
proceeded to other sites to install the digesters.

**Interviewer**: What did they do? And, what did you do?

**Interviewee**: We were responsible for digging the hole. I hired 2
people to do the job, and I paid them K5000. On top of this I paid,
K20000 for the bricks to line it with a brick wall around it.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you lined it?

**Interviewee**: We wanted to and we spent a lot of money on the whole
thing. The figure may sound small now, but it was a lot of money then.
And, if we had jotted everything down, you would have seen that it was a
lot of money.

**Interviewer**: Oh, I see. Did you buy cement to line it?

**Interviewee**: No, I would have used mud as mortar.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to dug the hole and build it?

**Interviewee**: Because we wanted the digesters so bad, we did
everything, as we were told and as fast as we could. I think it took
some weeks, and everything from digging to commissioning took about a
month.

**Interviewer**: In this community, we have a lot of households and a
lot of people too. How were you chosen as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: I can say it was God; when something comes unexpectedly
and you are selected, you should only be thankful to God. I mean, I
didn\'t know anything about it; I only became aware of it when they came
to say they wanted to install it here, if I was interested. So, I was
very excited about it.

**Interviewer**: So, \[name redacted\] came to you just like I've come
to you...

**Interviewee**: Yeah, he only asked me if I was interested and willing
to get it. So, when I saw that I could use it for cooking, I became so
interested and I hired someone to help me because I couldn't have done
the work on my own. My boy was skeptical about it, but they installers
and other people said it was an easyway of cooking, so I was convinced
and decided to take it. So, my boy when it didn't work was like I told
you, and I have lost a lot of money for you to build it. Simply put, I
was chosen by God to have it.

**Interviewer**: You have said you couldn't have managed it on your own
so you asked other people to help, why did you feel that way? Or, where
did you see that you could not manage?

**Interviewee**: It was because I had no bricks; I felt that I couldn't
have managed to dig the hole too. Also, people were not giving me manure
for free, so I had to buy to startit. On top of this, I had to buy
manure everyday for regular feeding, and it was not practical. A bag of
cow manure, if I'm not mistaken, was K150. So to buy 4 or 10 bags of
manure, it was a lot of money.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't know anything about it. And, even today, I
even have troubles in pronouncing the word "biogas" (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) really?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, so I just say a "cooking device".

**Interviewer**: So \[name redacted\] and his friends came here to see
if you would be interested in the digester and you accepted it. You had
the right to deny it, why did you accept it to be built here?

**Interviewee**: I accepted it because the stove was designed to stay
inside the house, so I thought it was safe from thieves and also I could
use it easy since it was within. It would have been a good thing if it
had continued, because I like the intensity of its fire. It was taking
little time to get water boiled.

**Interviewer**: Do you think the digester came here without consulting
the chiefs?

**Interviewee**: There was no way it could have come to the community
without consulting the chiefs.

**Interviewer**: So you think \[name redacted\] and the installers
liaised with the chiefs before it came here.

**Interviewee**: Yeah! Because I have never went to the chief or
attended any community meeting regarding biogas.

**Interviewer**: What were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: I expected the digested to give my family some kind of
peace and rest.

**Interviewer**: What do you mean?

**Interviewee**: By simply going to the kitchen to cook and then serve
food, that's peace! It was strange and surprising to see food being
cooked without searching and using firewood. And, many people were
coming to the kitchen to see how I was able to cook nsima without
firewood. Many people desired it a lot, and many people wanted to have
it as well. But, once I started complaining, all the people lost
interest.

**Interviewer**: Can you estimate, how many people came and were
interested in owning the digester?

**Interviewee**: It was a lot, my brother.

**Interviewer**: Like 10, 50?

**Interviewee**: Maybe 20 people and most of them were men who wanted to
adopt the technology in their houses. Many strangers were coming too,
and some of them were people we had never seen before. And, the
installers advised me to call them whenever someone was interested in
the digester. But, I didn't call them, because the digester wasn't
helping me.

**Interviewer**: What were you told to expect by the installers?

**Interviewee**: They told me that I would be able to warm water for
bathing, cook nsima, and everything else that needs cooking. But, I was
not able to do any of the things that they mentioned.

**Interviewer**: Did they tell you that you could use the digestate as
fertilizer.

**Interviewee**: Fertilizer? No!

**Interviewer**: They were supposed to tell you that it produced slurry
at the outlet that can be used as fertilizer. What about using it for
lighting?

**Interviewee**: We asked about lighting and one of the people left us
his number to make that arrangement with other people to bring solar
panels. We have tried to communicate with him, but nothing has happened.

**Interviewer**: But, you can also use the digester for lighting if you
make certain arrangements.

**Interviewee**: Oooh, they didn't tell us that.

**Interviewer**: Maybe if it had work properly, then they would have
told you about that. What kind of training did you receive?

**Interviewee**: Hmm, no.

**Interviewer**: If you were not trained, then how were you able to
switch it on and off?

**Interviewee**: They just showed us the button for switching it on and
off.That was all I learnt.

**Interviewer**: And maybe how to make feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they told us how to make feedstock and they also
told us to make sure that there was no lumps and trash in the feedstock
to prevent blockages.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the digester did you
feel you were after they told you how to turn it on and maybe have to
make feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I just feel like they made us work and spend our money
for nothing. They made us handle cow manure without any benefit. I mean,
when you're doing something you expect to gain something, but on this
one we gained nothing after all the hard work... We spent money for
nothing!

**Interviewer**: How did the people react when they saw that your
digester was not working?

**Interviewee**: It's only a few people who are happy when somebody is
blessed with something. Most people like to see people on the same level
as them or below. People don't like to see people doing better than
them. So when we failed people were happy and started demeaning us in
their talk. People can talk when you fail my brother, my brother.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, people talk. How did you meet your energy needs
before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: I was buying charcoal and sometimes I was cutting the
bluegum trees around.

**Interviewer**: You don't go to the mountains? You just use the trees
around?

**Interviewee**: The mountain is protected, so it's hard to get firewood
there. So, we just use bluegum trees around. That's why I say it was
ablessing to get a digester.

**Interviewer**: How much was a bag of charcoal then?

**Interviewee**: That time a bag of charcoal was cheap; a bag of
charcoal was going at K1500 or K1000. Now seeing that there are no trees
in the mountains they charge K5000. However, energy for cooking is not a
problem around these months (after harvesting) because we use maize
stalks and cobs. I only have that log of firewood there, because we had
wedding ceremony and food preparation was done here, so it was left
there. But, around this time, people only use maize cobs and stalks.

**Interviewer**: How many bags of charcoal do you use in a month?

**Interviewee**: To be honestly with you, I rarely use charcoal because
of the bluegum trees around.

**Interviewer**: I can see that you have a lot of bluegum trees, how did
you manage to get all these bluegum trees?

**Interviewee**: We got a lot of tree siblings from the agriculture
extension office. I think it was a government program to encourage
people to plant trees.

**Interviewer**: You have said that time you had no cows....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we used to buy there, and also from another
place.

**Interviewer**: That's not far. That's like 200 or 400 meters. What
about the other place?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, this was close and a lot of people liked this
place because it was cheap. The other place was far and when you went
there, you couldn\'t find a person because people thought they were
charging a lot more. Here they were charging K150, and the other place
was charging K200.

**Interviewer**: Why were people going after the manure?

**Interviewee**: There was also another beneficiary that side who used
to come to buy manure too for their digester. And, the other people were
coming to buy manure for fertilizer purposes.

**Interviewer**: You mean the \[name redacted\] family?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they were also beneficiaries. That time a lot of
people were approached but ended up denying it because they thought it
was involving, and that they couldn't manage to source manure. So,
beneficiaries were chosen from each village, and in this village, I was
the only one who was chosen.

**Interviewer**: You had no livestock, why do you think you were chosen?

**Interviewee**: Honestly, I don't know why I was chosen.

**Interviewer**: Okay, let's talk about how it worked. But before that,
how much feedstock did you start it up with?

**Interviewee**: We were told to charge it with 10 barrels of feedstock.
That's we got 10 barrels of cow manure, add water and mix to have
suitable slurry.

**Interviewer**: So those 10 barrels was it just cow manure or cow
manure with water.

**Interviewee**: We started feeding it with 2 barrels of pure water.
And, that's when we started mixing 10barrels of cow manure with water to
make suitable slurry.

**Interviewer**: How much water did you add to the 10 barrels of water?

**Interviewee**: I can't really say because we weren't counting. But, it
was a lot of water too because the bag was very huge.

**Interviewer**: Where did you used to get water that time?

**Interviewee**: We have a borehole in this community. It's somewhere
there, close to the chief's house (500 meters).

**Interviewer**: What type of barrels are you talking about?

**Interviewee**: I'm not talking about the plastic drums but the
metallic ones.

**Interviewer**: How many 20 liter buckets goes into that?

**Interviewee**: 6 buckets.

**Interviewer**: So, that's like 120 liters per barrel. Oh, that must
have been some work.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was a lot of work, and flies were over the
place as we made feedstock.

**Interviewer**: So they instructed you to make feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and it was the installers who started preparing
the feedstock. They made feedstock out of one barrel, and then we hired
workers to make feedstock from the remaining 9 barrels of cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How many people did you hire to make the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I hired two people.

**Interviewer**: How much did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: I have forgotten how much exactly I paid them to make
feedstock. But, all I can remember is that they were tough. They said
they couldn't handle cow manure for little money (laughs). So, I paid a
lot of money on that!

**Interviewer**: How long did it take to start up?

**Interviewee**: I believe it started producing fire after two weeks
from the day we fed it with the first charge.

**Interviewer**: Did they come to commission it?

**Interviewee**: Before commissioning, I have to say they were coming
time and again. But, after commissioning, they stopped coming.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after commission? Let's look at the
first day.

**Interviewee**: Oh, it produced a very strong fire, and it was a joy to
watch. And, at some point, it started producing little fire. The
installers came and they saw that as well.

**Interviewer**: How did they see that?

**Interviewee**: Four or five people came this other day to follow it up
and I told them it was not taking long for the fire to die. Then, we
went to the kitchen to see it. Afterwards, they asked me to put a pot of
water and they turned it on. Then, the fire died before the water
boiled. So, they went to the digester bag and started writing on a piece
of paper. When they were going to the digester bag, I thought they would
fix it, but I just saw them writing on a paper and then they left. I
believe when I told them they didn't believe me, and that's why I asked
to them to go to the kitchen to see it themselves. And when they turned
it on, it produced strong flames for a very short time and died.

**Interviewer**: Like how did it take?

**Interviewee**: you wouldn't walk from this place to that place,
return, and find it on. No way, it wasn't producing fire that long.

**Interviewer**: Oh, you couldn't walk for 200 meters back and forth.

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: After that, it was stopping completely?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: On the first day, were you able to cook on it?

**Interviewee**: On the first day, I was able to cook side dish of fish
(10 -- 20 minutes). But, afterwards when I tried to cook porridge it
didn't work (laughs)

**Interviewer**: (laughs) What about the second day?

**Interviewee**: After the fire dying, we had to wait for sometime for
it to produce fire again. On the second day, when we tried to boil
water, it went off.

**Interviewer**: So you were able to use it only once when you cooked
side dish of fish?

**Interviewee**: Not once. It was twice. And, I was also able to warm
water for tea for a month. It was not a lot of water, it just 2 cups of
tea (3 -- 5 minutes). It was working out because the flame that was
coming out once it was started was very hot.

**Interviewer**: So, if you were able to use the digester, it was for
tea making basically?

**Interviewee**: It was only for tea. I never used it for cooking nsima.

**Interviewer**: How many people were staying here what time?

**Interviewee**: Since it came here, I have always stayed alone. I'm
mostly alone with that boy who comes in the evening only to sleep as he
stays with his mom along the road.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They just told us that it needs manure.

**Interviewer**: What type of manure?

**Interviewee**: Cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How did you prepare the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: First, I was getting a bucket with a wide opening.
Then, I was placing manure in the bucket, add water, and then mix it.
Afterwards, I was pouring the feedstock into the digester.

**Interviewer**: How did you mix it? Did you use a stick, or a mixer or
hands?

**Interviewee**: They told us to break all the lumps in the feedstock,
so we couldn't use a stick because it wasn't working. As a result, we
used hands to make the feedstock -- I have to say I was involved in some
unpleasant work.

**Interviewer**: Didn't you feel gross doing that?

**Interviewee**: It was the installers who started that, so we just
followed suit. I mean, if educated people who eat good food were doing
that, who am I not to do? (Laughs).

**Interviewer**: How often were you supposed to feed it, and in what
quantities?

**Interviewee**: They told us to feed it everyday with 2 bags (50kg) of
cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How much water?

**Interviewee**: The water was just for making suitable slurry. So we
didn't have a standard, and we were counting the quantity of the water;
apart from that water, we weren't adding any other water.

**Interviewer**: Roughly, how much water were you adding to a 20-liter
bucket of cow manure or to one bag?

**Interviewee**: I can't know. We were just adding water to have
suitable feedstock.

**Interviewer**: Who was responsible for feeding it? Were you solely
responsible?

**Interviewee**: I was solely responsible.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the task of feeding it?

**Interviewee**: It was hard because it was done every day. I mean, it
couldn't produce fire, if it was not fed. Also, you need to feed it
first before doing anything, because if you feed it later in the day,
you couldn't give it time to produce gas. So, that also was a challenge.
But, I feel like if it was working okay, we could have gotten used to
all that and we wouldn't have complained too.

**Interviewer**: In your opinion, how often should it be fed to be fair
on the user?

**Interviewee**: If they had said that it needs to be fed once or twice
a week with 3 bags (50 liters) of cow manure, then it would have been
fair. It was tall order to ask someone to feed it everyday.

**Interviewer**: Did it meet your needs?

**Interviewee**: No, like I've said I was not able to cook nsima on it,
I was only able to boil water for tea.

**Interviewer**: Sure. What were the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The only problem I had was that I lost money on it.
And, the sad part is that the money I lost wasn't mine. I asked the
money from my child and I wasted it for nothing.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, it's different from wasting your own money

**Interviewee**: Yeah, and I was shouted for that. My son was like I'm
naïve and credulous (laughs). Then, I was like I'm not credulous; it's
just that I wanted to make cooking easy.

**Interviewer**: How long did it work before it stopped working?

**Interviewee**: I can say it worked for 2 months. During the first
month, I tried everything to make it work, but it didn't. Then, I gave
up in the following month. And, when the installers came, they commented
that I was better off than the rest. They said no one was using it for
any other purpose. So, I thought to myself that if the other
beneficiaries were not able to make it work, was I going to make it
work? So, I knew it was just a matter of time before it failed.

**Interviewer**: How many times have you received people to talk about
the digester?

**Interviewee**: I have received people a couple of times; I think 4
times.

**Interviewer**: When they came what were they saying?

**Interviewee**: They were asking me questions just like you're doing,
and they saw that things wouldn't work.

**Interviewer**: What kind of questions did you receive?

**Interviewee**: For example, they asked me how I felt since it didn't
work, and I was like I feel bad because I wasted a lot of money on it
for nothing.

**Interviewer**: What did they say they would do afterwards?

**Interviewee**: I remember one time they told me they were sorry and
gave me K500 (laughs)

**Interviewer**: Oh (laughs heavily)

**Interviewee**: (laughs) yeah, and that day I appreciated it a lot
because I had no salt so I used the money to buy salt.

**Interviewer**: So you said you used it for a month. We you buying
manure all that time?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I was buying manure at K150. And I bought the
manure for about 30 days.

**Interviewer**: What was the problem with your digester? Did you see
any technical problem with it?

**Interviewee**: No, it was just producing very little gas for a very
short time.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to fix it?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't.

**Interviewer**: Did you call the project implementers?

**Interviewee**: To be honest with you, I never called them, because
that time, I thought the installers would be coming to monitor
everything that was happening.

**Interviewer**: Okay, have you seen something like this?

**Interviewee**: No

**Interviewer**: What do you think of this information and do you think
itwould have helped you?

**Interviewee**: Yes, it would have helped.... I think the installers
were getting reports that the digesters were not working because other
beneficially and I used to go to Mr. Msothi to complain that project had
made us lost money. We also questioned the purpose of the coming of
digesters since we wondered if the digesters work.Then, he was like he
too had lost some money. So, I believe every beneficiary lost money
because of the project in one way or the other.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of your
digester?

**Interviewee**: The digester is not currently working and some of the
equipment is lost, for example, the white pipes. As for the bag, it is
buried in the ground, and if we could dig the site today, we would find
it.

**Interviewer**: And I can see you are using the green pipe as a
clothesline. I think it could have been better if they had simply
donated clotheslines (laughs).

**Interviewee**: (laughs) funny!

**Interviewer**: How did it reach this stage? And, in your opinion, what
was the cause?

**Interviewee**: I should be asking you how it reached that stage,
because I feel like you have failed as a project implementer and have
squandered our money. You gave us things that don't work and in the
process, we have lost money on things that didn't benefit us at all. So,
the question is, what are you going to do after what happened to us?
Because, I believe you are responsible and accountable for its failure.

**Interviewer**: Oh, they gave you things that don't work?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, those things don't work.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think a whole organization would come and
give you things that do not work?

**Interviewee**: The question I asked myself is that when you brought
the digesters here, did you see that they worked somewhere else? And if
it worked there, why did it not work here? And I'm pretty sure that what
we did, the other people also did the same because we basically did what
we were told. So my question is when you brought these things here, were
you sure that these things work? You have asked me questions and it's my
time to ask you questions -- Do these things work? You made us lost a
lot of money because of the digesters.

**Interviewer**: It's only fair that I should answer a question too. We
are not the ones who installed these things. But, I've gone to many
places in Machinga, Nsanje, and Mangochi to check out what's happening
with the digesters. And, I can tell you today that what you are saying
is basically what every beneficiary says. The things didn't work
everywhere, so we will try to see why they failed, and we will answer
that question -- "Do these things work?"

**Interviewee**: Yeah, they give us a thing that deprived us of salt and
other basic necessities. I mean, when we had K300 we couldn't buy
anything else but cow manure. And, after spending all that, we couldn't
get anything out. It's sad! And if you can look close, you will see that
all the work that was involved required hired labour. So, we lost a lot
of money. And when the installers came, they were just moving around the
digester, pinching it and then saying it's full without doing something
tangible to solve the problem.

**Interviewer**: (laughs,) You have told me that now when you want to
cook you use firewood, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah

**Interviewer**: You said that time we didn't have livestock, but now
you have. How do you manage your cow manure now?

**Interviewee**: I use the manure as fertilizer. Now, I haven't got the
manure out of the cow house. But, I will start gathering it tomorrow.

**Interviewer**: Do you heap it on the ground or do you dig a pit?

**Interviewee**: I do have a pit but it's full now because I've been
putting manure in the pit for two years now. If I had money, I would
have gotten it out and taken it to the farm.

**Interviewer**: Do you just gather manure in the pit? Or, you add
something else?

**Interviewee**: I simply put manure. Then, after a year or so, I hire
people to carry the manure to the farm and use it as fertilizer. I can't
manage to carry it on my own, because at that point, it's more like soil
and it's heavy.

**Interviewer**: How does the manure work?

**Interviewee**: It produces maize of big kernels.

**Interviewer**: Okay, we are going towards the much did the reactor
cost?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't tell us.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything in kind?

**Interviewee**: I only contributed in the work that I was hiring people
to do on my behalf.

**Interviewer**: How many people lined the hole?

**Interviewee**: Our digester was not lined. They just dug the hole and
placed the digester. Of course, they told us to line it, but it stopped
working while we were about to start lining it. But, the other
beneficiary lined it.

**Interviewer**: So you didn't line it?

**Interviewee**: We didn't line it, but it was in our plans and budget.

**Interviewer**: What special items had to be imported from another
country?

**Interviewee**: No, they didn't tell us anything about that.

**Interviewer**: I want to ask you if the digest the helped you to save
money, but from what I've gathered you only lost quite a lot of money
because of it...Roughly, how much money did you lose?

**Interviewee**: I bought burned bricks at K15000. Then, they told us
that it was not enough, so we bought extra bricks for K5000. I paid the
boys who dug the hole K5000. I also paid them another K500 for carrying.
Then, I was buying the manure at K150. So, you can see I was buying
manure at K150, but the people were charging me K500 to collect and
transport the manure.You can imagine, I was told to gather 10 or 15 bags
of fresh cow manure to make the first charge, and I paid the people who
carried feedstock too. So, that was a lot of manure, and this whole
place was covered with bags of cow manure that day.

**Interviewer**: Yeah, you really spent a lot of money. What is your
opinion of biogas now?

**Interviewee**: I don't have positive thoughts on biogas because it
didn't help me and I didn't use it. And, the people I requested money
from to help start it up can't give me the money again, if I ask them
to.

**Interviewer**: So if someone wants to give you the same again it can't
work because the people who supported you to start it up can't support
you again because they felt it was a waste of money.

**Interviewee**: There is no way they can support me on biogas. No way!

**Interviewer**: What is the future of biogas in Malawi?

**Interviewee**: It's hard for me to say that I see it continuing after
the experience I had with it, which I saw nothing good about it. I can
only see a future if it can be designed in a different way that
peoplecan use.

**Interviewer**: If you could have designed your own energy or waste
intervention, what would you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: It's easy to think about one, but to have the resources
to implement it is another thing.

**Interviewer**: So which alternatives can you think of? I mean, on that
one you didn't spend money from your pocket, but others assisted you.
So, in the same way, what if the same people want to support you with or
on a different solution. Which solution would you think of?

**Interviewee**: Then, it could be any solution that would make cooking
easy.

**Interviewer**: Like what?

**Interviewee**: I can't think of any other thing. I think you are
better placed to know the other solution.

**Interviewer**: Okay, in closing do you have any last words?

**Interviewee**: If it's possible, bring a solution that can help me,
not biogas because it didn't help me in any way.

**Interviewer**: If you could meet the installers today, what would you
say to them?

**Interviewee**: I didn't hold any words on them and that's why they
gave K500 (laughs). And, they were like we have gone to all the
beneficiaries, but it seems you are the one that is most stressed about
losing money because of biogas.

**Interviewer**: What did you say to them to the point that they had to
give you money?

**Interviewee**: I asked them that when you are bring products to help
community people, do you bring things that work or not. And, I
questioned them if they tried the digesters somewhere? And if yes, did
the digester worked or not? And, if they worked, did the digesters help
the people? I told them that if they had tried or had experience with
the digesters somewhere, then they wouldn't have brought them here. And,
I told them that they just saw the digesters somewhere without knowing
what they are, and brought them here that was totally injustice on us.
You made us handle cow manure and all that. That's when one of the woman
laughed and gave me K500 (laughs). Then, she commented that I had every
right to complain, because the whole work was a totally failure. So, she
said because they have failed, she could only say sorry, and that's why
she gave me K500.

**Interviewer**: Oh (laughs) interesting. Thanks for the interview. I
have leave and see the other beneficiary too. Thanks for the interview
again.

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming!
