**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 56**

**Date: November 13, 2022.**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digester originate from?

**Interviewee**: It came with Ecogen. What happened was that Ecogen came
to our cow farmers group and briefed us about the digesters. That time,
I wasn't at the meeting but my wife was there. So, when she heard about
the digester, she became interested and asked me to get one. So, we got
one, and here in \[location redacted\], we are the only ones who have
this. It could have been disappointing for them to come here and not get
even one single customer. So, after that, they came and they advise us
to dig holes for the digester.

**Interviewer**: How much did the digester cost?

**Interviewee**: The cost of the digester is K850000, and the money is
supposed to be paid within 2 years.

**Interviewer**: Who built it?

**Interviewee**: To construct a digester you need 2 holes, and I'm the
one who dug the holes. As for other work, for instance, its
installation, Ecogen did that.

**Interviewer**: How many people from the installation company were
involved in its installation?

**Interviewee**: There were three people, female and 2 males.

**Interviewer**: How long did it take you to dig the hole?

**Interviewee**: I started digging the hole at 4:00 PM after knocking of
from work, and then I continued the following day to finish at 11 AM.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that was some work

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was a lot of work.

**Interviewer**: Apart from digging, what was your other role? And, who
was responsible for making the first feedstock?

**Interviewee**: On the first day, they showed us how to do it, so they
were responsible for making the feedstock. But, after that, I was
responsible for making the feedstock and feeding it.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I knew everything about biogas because of them.

**Interviewer**: I believe your cattle group has a lot of members, so
could you take me through the meeting you had with Ecogen? What did they
say? And, why didn't the other cow owners get the digesters?

**Interviewee**: On that day, there was a meeting of cow farmers, so
they took advantage of that and they came to discuss about their
digesters. And, they also came with a biogas storage bag to demonstrate
their product. So, at the end of their demonstration people ate nsima
with side dish. And, on that particular day, they were over 50 people.
After their presentation, the people become interested in the digesters,
but people were put off by the price of K800000. So, nearly all cow
farmers thought the price was too much and it didn't get the digesters.
I think my wife only accepted it because she knew that I'm a cow farmer,
and I'm also employed. So, I accepted her request because I thought it
was going to her help. Now, I think we made a mistake. But, since we
already got it, and we can't return it, we will do anything to make it
work -- and the only consolation now is that we get our cow manure from
it -- and we make compost from it.

**Interviewer**: So a lot of people liked it but they were put off by
itself price?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, when we started using it a lot of people came and
they liked it. I remember four people asked me to give them the number
of the installers so that they could also be installed one. But, when
they called the installers they were told that they needed to pay a
deposit of K200000 and also that the price of the digesters had risen to
K900000 or K950000. So, they told them that they could not manage, and
that's why they did not get it. Now, I understand that the price of it
is over K1 million, and that's not something that a farmer can manage.

**Interviewer**: My understanding is that you expected to use it for
cooking and as well as a source of fertilizer. Apart from this, is there
anything else you expected from it?

**Interviewee**: My biggest expectation as a farmer and as a villager
was that my wife was going to use it for 3 hours cooking, and that's a
lot of cooking time. So with that I anticipated that my wife would be
using it in the morning, in the afternoon, and in the evening for
cooking. But, now that's not the case. Now, it's not possible for her to
cook nsima and side dish (1 hour -- 1 hour and 30 minutes of cook time).
The other thing was that I expected it to provide us with fertilizer,
and that's what attracted me most about it, because we live in a village
and we can't do anything else apart from farming. From this, I also
expected to supply other community members with his fertilizer at a
certain price. So, those were my expectations!

**Interviewer**: You are saying you expected to get three hours of
cooking time but that's not the case. How much cooking time are you
getting from it now?

**Interviewee**: I'm only getting 30 minutes, and after that, it goes
off. And to get that you also need to put a bag of sand or stones on top
of the digester bag to force the gas out of the bag.

**Interviewer**: Oh, sad. How did you meet your energy needs before the
intervention?

**Interviewee**: She was using firewood and charcoal. And now it's not
like things have changed, I still use firewood and charcoal because we
are getting very limited cooking time.

**Interviewer**: Where do you get firewood?

**Interviewee**: We have trees but they are not enough to get firewood
from everyday. So, we buy firewood from wood vendors of Mulanje, who
usually sell firewood in Blantyre.

**Interviewer**: In a month, how much firewood and charcoal do you buy?

**Interviewee**: I use one bag of 50 kg of charcoal, and firewood of
K10000.

**Interviewer**: How much is a bag of charcoal in Mikolongwe?

**Interviewee**: Charcoal price depends on the season; charcoal is more
expensive in wet season than in dry season because it's hard to produce
it in cold season, and also because the demand is high as people use it
for warming water. So, we buy a bag of charcoal at K10000, and if you
are a good negotiator, you get it at K8000 from the same vendor.

**Interviewer**: From your statements, I believe you have cows. How many
cows did you have that time? And, how many do you have now?

**Interviewee**: The time they came, I had two cows. And now I still
have two cows. I had 4 cows lately, but I have sold one because I wanted
to sort out some issues, and the other one died.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage your manure before the intervention?

**Interviewee**: I have a hole of 3m long, 3m wide and 1m deep. So, I
put the manure there. Now, I add effluent on the manure to make strong
fertilizer. Then, after everything, we cover the manure with plastic bag
for 6 weeks.

**Interviewer**: People say if you want fertilizer go to a shop and get
inorganic fertilizer, because manure doesn't work as fertilizer, what's
your take?

**Interviewee**: Of course, inorganic fertilizer is better. But, I do
see change when I use the compost too. And this other time I tried
effluent from the digester on my vegetable garden, and it worked quite
okay. The beans, mustard, and other vegetables did well, and the other
thing is that when you use the effluent you don't need to apply
pesticide. Thus, after we applied the effluent no weevils, armyworms and
other pests came near the garden, so it's good in that regard. And this
time around, I\'m planning to collect the effluent and dilute it because
it's too strong you can't use it as come, and then apply it on a
separate maize field when I normally harvest two bags of maize to try it
out on maize.

**Interviewer**: How much feedstock did you start it with?

**Interviewee**: Initially, because the bag is big they told us to pour
10 drums (200 liters) of pure water. Then, I gathered 5 or 6 bags of
fresh manure and started feeding it with slurry of 2 or 3 buckets (20
kg) of fresh cow manure and 4 or 6 buckets of water every day for 10
days. In the morning, I was feeding it one bucket of cow manure. In the
afternoon hours, I was also adding one bucket. During the 10 days, I did
not miss a day to feed it because it was new and I wanted to do
everything right. So, after 10 days, I was told to wait for 5 days, and
after 5 days, they came and started it.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the manure?

**Interviewee**: Before coming, they gave me enough time to gather
manure. So, I was collecting fresh cow manure, and then keeping it in
the bags. And after that, I managed to get six or five bags of cow
manure, which I used for starting it up.

**Interviewer**: Where did you get the water?

**Interviewee**: We have a borehole nearby so I hired people to draw
water for us.

**Interviewer**: Like how far from your house?

**Interviewee**: It's 150 meters.

**Interviewer**: Okay. How did it work after commissioning?

**Interviewee**: The digester started well because we did cook nsima on
that day, and the nsima was hot and very tasty -- and it was fast. And,
biogas in general is it faster than cooking on charcoal or firewood.
It's very good in that regard. And after commissioning, they told us
that there was less gas because we had just started, but as we progress,
gas production would increase up to 3 hours of cooking hour. So, I
dedicated to myself to feeding it and every day before going to work, I
was feeding it and after returning, I was also feeding it. And, when I
was going away, I was ordering my wife and children to collect fresh cow
manure and put it in a bag, so that we would not fail to feed it once.
But, now we are getting a little bit lazy because when we put nsima on
the stove, it goes off as the nsima is simmering.

**Interviewer**: Have you reported this to Ecogen and what's their
response?

**Interviewee**: When we report to them, they say that we are not
feeding it enough.... But, on the day they installed it, they applauded
me for me efforts saying they have never seen a committed person like me
as I was doing everything by myself without help from anybody. My plan
was to do everything by myself and I still feed it myself because I
don't want the kids or a hired worker to mess it up by feeding it with
feedstock containing rubbish. So, personally, I don't agree with the
fact that I don't feed it -- I feed it by myself and I know I feed
enough. So, right now think it's not producing gas because thick slurry
has settled on the base of the bag. Thus, if the slurry was coming out
by an extra outlet, I believe it would work.

**Interviewer**: What usually happens is that the slurry is taken out of
the system at the outlet as digestate. Does your bag release digestate?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it does and I have a hole at the outlet that
collects it. And, sometimes, when it's stuck on the outlet pipe, I take
the digestate that's blocking it, and effluent starts coming out too.

**Interviewer**: How many people do use the gas?

**Interviewee**: We are five.

**Interviewer**: What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: First, they advised me to feed the digester on a daily
basis, and that the feedstock should not contain any plastics or stones.
And, that's why I feed it myself because I don't want any shortcuts in
feeding, so that's why I don't allow my children or anyone else to feed
it.And, since I started not even my wife has fed it. I do everything in
an organized manner and according to the installers' instructions in
terms of preparation of feedstock. And, other thing is that the digester
bag needs to be placed where it should be exposed to the sun. So, we did
that when we were installing it, and now I do everything as I was
taught.

**Interviewer**: How do you prepare feedstock?

**Interviewee**: Every morning, I go to the cow house to collect one
bucket of fresh cow manure in a bucket. Then, I add two buckets of water
and then mix the feedstock thoroughly. As I'm mixing the feedstock, I
try as much as possible to remove grass and small stones or sand, which
is found in a cow house. After seeing that the slurry is thoroughly
mixed, I open the inlet pipe, feed it, and then clean the buckets.

**Interviewer**: Do you have a mixer? How do you mix it?

**Interviewee**: Honestly speaking, I have gloves from my work, but I
use bare hands in mixing the feedstock in a bucket.

**Interviewer**: Why do you use bare hands?

**Interviewee**: It is because when they installers came they didn't
advise me to use gloves, and even themselves didn't use gloves the first
time they prepared feedstock. Moreover, cow manure can be handled
because we see that it eat grass and maize grain, so it doesn't feel
gross to handle it.

**Interviewer**: How often do you feed your digester?

**Interviewee**: I feed it once or twice daily in a ratio of 1:2. But
now I'm becoming a bit lazy because of its performance.

**Interviewer**: How did you manage to gather five bags of cows and even
feed it every day with at least a bucket of fresh manure with only 2
cows? Is feedstock not a challenge to you?

**Interviewee**: During the day, I advised my wife to collect fresh cow
manure every time a cow poops, so by the end of the day we collect ¾ of
a bucket \[15Kgs\]. And, you should know that cow poops little in the
daylight unlike in the night. So, in the morning, I collect one bucket
and a half-bucket (30kgs) of cow manure. Of course, sometimes these days
I don't collect in the morning, so I take the dry manure to my pit for
composting. So, the secret of having enough manure from cows is feeding.
If you feed your cows frequently and enough, you get a lot of manure.

**Interviewer**: So you feed your cows adequately and frequently?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I have a worker who feeds it. And, every time I'm
coming from the office, I also get cow feed. Plus, also ask my son to
gather feed for the cows too.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what are the maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: One time the gas valve, close to stove got damaged as
my child was trying to use it. After that, I took some pictures, and
then went to Limbe Market \[The biggest market in Blantyre\] to buy it,
but I didn't find it. Then, I reported and sent the installers the
picture, and they came to fix it, but didn't charge me anything.

**Interviewer**: Oh nice. Did they give you a service warranty?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's for 2 years.

**Interviewer**: Great! You are saying it doesn't meet your needs. Tell
me about that one.

**Interviewee**: It's not meeting my needs. My wife is here with me and
she can agree with me on that. \[Hands over the phone to her\].... Yeah,
it's not meeting our needs. But, when we feed it, we do manage to
prepare breakfast (10 -- 20 minutes) and then cook light side dish that
doesn't need a lot of heat, for example, vegetables, eggs and fish (10
-- 20), and sometimes we do manage to cook nsima in the afternoon --but
this is very, very rare.

**Interviewer**: Okay, that's very nice. What challenges have you been
facing since it was installed?

**Interviewee**: I'm not facing any challenges.

**Interviewer**: So it's only that you're not getting enough cooking
time?

**Interviewee**: Right! That's the only issue.

**Interviewer**: You are telling me that it had an issue with the gas
valve. How long did it take the gas valve to get broken?

**Interviewee**: It took some time -- it took some months.

**Interviewer**: Maybe 4, 2 or 9 months?

**Interviewee**: It was exactly 6 months.

**Interviewer**: When you reported the issue, how long did it take them
to come?

**Interviewee**: The installers stay in Lilongwe, so when I reported the
issue they told me that they would send someone to come, and if they
fail to find someone they were going to come themselves. Then after
three days, they called me that someone was coming from Poly to fix it,
so that's how it was fixed.

**Interviewer**: How did you know that the gas valve was broken?

**Interviewee**: Gas was leaking on that part.

**Interviewer**: So before that, you went to Limbe to find a spare part
by yourself, but you were not successful in your attempt....

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I took the part out to Limbe as a sample. And, I
visited all the hardware shops in Limbe, and it didn't find it.

**Interviewer**: We are remaining with about five questions. Were you
given written information like on a piece of paper regarding common
issues associated with digesters, their causes and possible solution?

**Interviewee**: Something like a manual?

**Interviewer**: Yeah, kind of.

**Interviewee**: No, I wasn't given.

**Interviewer**: What do you think about that kind of information and do
you think it would have helped you?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it's useful information, and whenever I do have a
problem, I would be using it to diagnose a problem and solve it.

**Interviewer**: How do you meet your energy needs now? You are still
using firewood and charcoal like you said in the beginning?

**Interviewee**: We usually start off by using biogas, and whenever it
goes off work, we continue with firewood and charcoal.

**Interviewer**: And you are still using manure as a fertilizer, right?

**Interviewee**: Yeah.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I will discuss with the installers to improve its
cooking time, so that I can be using it for 3 hours, if not, at least 2
hours; 20 or 30 minutes is not enough. But, I will continue feeding it
because I'm getting fertilizer from it.

**Interviewer**: Did you line or plaster the hole?

**Interviewee**: Three days after it was installed, we had rains. So,
the water in the hole lifted up the bag. Then, I borrow a water pump,
and then removed all the water from the hole. After that, I removed the
digester bag and plastered the hole, and placed it back. I did this work
alone, and when the installers came, they commended me for the job.

**Interviewer**: Impressive. Last question, if you could have designed
your own waste or energy intervention, what would you have chosen
instead?

**Interviewee**: \[Wait a bit I want to attend to visitors\]....When
they came they told me that it's also possible for a digester to produce
light, but it needs the pipe to be leveled and straight so it can
accommodate one bulb only. And, I would have also appreciated if they
had made it possible for us to charge phones at least. That way I can be
generating money from people who coming to charge their phones. Then, I
can be buying small things like salt for the family.

**Interviewer**: That was my last question; do you have anything to say
before winding up?

**Interviewee**: My last words are, biogas is very helpful because it
has two or three things that can help a person at a household level;
first, biogas makes my cow house clean because everyday I'm forced to
collect manure from the cow house and use it as feedstock for the
digester. Without this, my cow house was staying for a week or even
months without cleaning. As a result, my cows were sleeping in unclean
place. The other thing is that biogas assists me in making compost,
which I use as fertilizer. So, I'm expecting to improve the soil
structure and composition of my fields. The last thing is that with the
effluent, pests will not trouble me. I noticed the last time I tried it
up, that once I applied the effluent as fertilizer, there was no pest
manifestation. So, this will make it possible for me to grow maize and
vegetables without inorganic fertilizer and pesticides. Last but not
least, the fire we get from biogas is clean and doesn't dirt pots,
unlike when one cooks on firewood. So, it helps us save money because it
reduces the buying of soap used for cleaning the pots -- So it helps a
lot and you can't see and understand these things unless you have a
digester. And, if you can understand it more, you can see that it has
more benefits, so we will find out more in regards to its benefits as we
continue using it. Also, it helps save money because it minimizes the
usage offirewood. For a person like me at one point, I was using K2000
of firewood instead of K10000. And, in wet season, I was only buying the
K200 or K300 packs of charcoal, because it doesn't work efficiently in
wet season. So, if it starts working well, I hope to start buying a
K2000 bag of charcoal a month.

**Interviewer**: One more thing, you are saying that your digester is
not working well, what do you think it's the problem? Are you not
feeding it enough? Doesn't it have power to work for long? Or, it wasn't
installed properly?

**Interviewee**: When we were starting it off, we did put together 20 kg
of inoculum of bacteria to help boost its efficiency. So, after the hole
was filled with water, I pumped out some of the feedstock or manure from
the bag to take the back out, so that I could plaster the hole.
Afterwards, I returned some of the feedstock. I failed to return all the
feedstock because I didn't have enough drum, so I just dumped some of it
in the field. So, sometimes I think it did affect the whole setup in the
bag.

**Interviewer**: How many drums did you manage to put back?

**Interviewee**: I think it was 5 or 6.

**Interviewer**: Did you notify Ecogen?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I told them when they came.

**Interviewer**: And, what did they say?

**Interviewee**: They commended me for the job I did, so I presume that
they thought it wasn't a problem.

**Interviewer**: But, you think it\`s a problem.

**Interviewee**: Of course.

**Interviewer**: Do you doubt their expertise?

**Interviewee**: (laughs) no.

**Interviewer**: Okay, thanks for the interview.

**Interviewee**: Welcome.
