**BIOGAS ASSESSMENT PROJECT**

**Site ID: 59**

**Date: November 17, 2022**

**Interviewer**: Where did the digesters originate from?

**Interviewee**: I don't remember because many years have passed. But I
can only recall that it came here with one woman who came by a car. But,
before that people were called for a community meeting where they were
briefed about the biogas project. It was communicated there that five
people in our area would benefit from the project, and would go for
training. After the training, the five people were expected to be
teaching other people regarding biogas. Of course, I myself did not
attend the meeting I was just told. After some days, the installers came
to my house and advised me to dig a hole and to find fresh cow manure,
so that they could install the digester. So, we dug a big hole the
height of me -- it was very big, then we placed a bag in the hole. Then,
we fed it with 50 buckets of water and 5 bags of fresh cow manure. And,
I remember we mixed the feedstock using our bare hands. They promised us
gloves, gumboots and other stuff, but we never got the items.They also
told us that with the digester we would be cooking on it, and even
charge our phones. The sad part about the digester was that around that
time, there were some other community projects, for example, there was a
road project and a social cash transfer program, but the community
leaders decided not to involve us in the projects because we were
involved in the biogas project. They said that we would get money after
the biogas training or seminar, so we had to allow other people to
benefit too. So, we lost many other opportunities for a year or two
because of the biogas project. Moreover, the saddest part is that when
the digester was commissioned it didn't work, so we lost a lot of things
on something that didn't even work.

**Interviewer**: When was it built ?

**Interviewee**: It's been 3 years, if not 5 years.

**Interviewer**: So, you are saying you dug the hole?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I did.

**Interviewer**: How many were you?

**Interviewee**: I dug the hole with my first-born son. He supported me
because he saw that I could not manage to dig it alone. The hole was a
big one just like a dug well -- It was deep that I could not manage to
get out from. So my son seeing this thought of helping me.

**Interviewer**: You are saying you were asked to find 5 bags of cow
manure and 50 buckets of water. Where did you get these things?

**Interviewee**: I didn\'t have cows, so I asked cow owners within the
community to share me cow manure.

**Interviewer**: How many people sourced and prepared the feedstock?

**Interviewee**: I did this with my grandchildren. But, we didn't do the
job in a single day because it was impossible to gather that amount of
cow manure and water in a day. And, I have to say that we abused the
children, because once they got home from school we were immediately
asking them source the feedstock, and they were doing this job day and
night.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that was something.

**Interviewee**: Yeah, it was a lot of work. And, there was a lot of
shouting to get the young children working -- and, I promised them that
once I completed the trainings, I would give them some money from the
training allowance. But, the promise was never fulfilled as I didn't go
for training.

**Interviewer**: (laughs) oh

**Interviewee**: Yeah, I felt that was one way of motivating them.

**Interviewer**: I see. How many children are we talking about?

**Interviewee**: I have 5 or 6 grand children.

**Interviewer**: Okay. How many people from the installation company
came to install or construct the digester?

**Interviewee**: There were two people, but someone escorted them from
Kachere Village. But, I don't know if the digesters worked in Kachere
Village.

**Interviewer**: Okay. How were you selected as a beneficiary?

**Interviewee**: In every village, one person was chosen. So, in my
village I was the only one who was chosen. And, the fact that I was
chosen by the community and the Chiefs I thought that I was honored, so
I couldn't say no. So, they basically chose me because I was raising
some orphans, so they thought it would help me to support the children.
I think they thought that if I went to the training I would get money at
the end of the training to support the orphans I was raising.

**Interviewer**: Sure. What was the selection process like?

**Interviewee**: The first time the project implementers came, they had
a meeting with the chief, and they asked the chief to conduct a
community meeting. So, at the community meeting the people together with
the chief agreed that I was the right person to get the digester.

**Interviewer**: I have seen people chosen by the chiefs and the
community to be given something, but refusing to accept the thing. Why
did you accept the digester to be built here?

**Interviewee**: We didn't know what was going to happen in the future,
so we simply accepted it because the people and chief chose us. Had we
known that things would pan out the way they did, we wouldn't have
accepted it at all. And, even some people started making fun of us for
accepting it.

**Interviewer**: Who was doing that, and why?

**Interviewee**: The people thought we had worked for nothing, so they
were talking all sorts of things (laughs). The young people especially
were making fun of me saying why an old woman like me was busy doing
such a worthless job.

**Interviewer**: Tough! Did the project implementers attend the meeting?

**Interviewee**: No, it was just a community meeting.

**Interviewer**: Did you know about biogas before?

**Interviewee**: No, I didn't. I was expecting to learn about biogas at
the trainings, because we were told that we would go for training before
installation of the digesters commenced. So, we were so surprised to see
the installers asking us to source and prepare feedstock before the
training. But, we didn't say anything because we expected the training
later.

**Interviewer**: Okay, what were your expectations?

**Interviewee**: We expected to go for biogas training and get training
allowance at the end of the training. So, after the training I expected
to use the training allowance to buy at least a goat or a chicken.

**Interviewer**: How did you expect the digester to help you?

**Interviewee**: The way the installers explained things, we were so
convinced that we would use the digester for cooking. So, we expected to
stop searching for firewood because here we source firewood in fields.
We don't buy firewood because we can't afford it. Firewood needs people
who have money. So, when we go the field to farm, we also source
firewood there. The other thing is that we expected to be charging our
phones using the digester -- But nothing happened, zero!

**Interviewer**: Do you use charcoal?

**Interviewee**: I never used charcoal, because it needs a lot of money.
So, it's only rich people who use charcoal in this village.

**Interviewer**: What kind of training did you receive? I mean, you
didn't receive any training, right?

**Interviewee**: We didn't go for training.

**Interviewer**: Then, how were you able to operate it?

**Interviewee**: The project implementers showed us how to operate it.
Then, they told us that we should be using a matchstick to light up the
fire, and all that. And, since we didn't know anything about it, we
expected to learn more about it, for example, its benefit and importance
after commissioning it. But the sad thing is that it didn't work at all.

**Interviewer**: How prepared to run or operate the digester did you
feel you were?

**Interviewee**: I expected it to go for training after commissioning.
So I felt like then I would have had skills and knowledge to operate it.

**Interviewer**: How did it work after the commission? I understand you
didn'tuse it.

**Interviewee**: It didn't work at all.

**Interviewer**: No even once?

**Interviewee**: I didn't produce any flame. So we didn\'t even try to
boil water for hand washing.

**Interviewer**: So after trying to start it up and seeing that it
failed. What did the installers say?

**Interviewee**: After it was installed, they never came to see if it
worked or not.

**Interviewer**: Did you try to start it up yourself? Were the
installers there when you were trying to startit up?

**Interviewee**: The installers didn't come to commission it. People
from Kachere came to commission it. When they came, they taught us how
to light up the gas, but when they tried to light up the flame, it
didn't work. So, we just abandoned it afterwards.

**Interviewer**: Who were these people from Kachere? Was it extension
workers or government officials?

**Interviewee**: No, beneficiaries just like us from Kachere came. So,
we don't know if they were trained or not.

**Interviewer**: How many were they?

**Interviewee**: They were 2.

**Interviewer**: How people were expected to use the gas?

**Interviewee**: We were 6 people. Two were my children, the other 3
were orphans I was raising.

**Interviewer**: Okay, and you expected to use the gas for cooking only.
What were the operation requirements?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us about the requirements. They didn't
tell us which materials we would need to keep it running.

**Interviewer**: You mean they didn't tell you about feeding?

**Interviewee**: They told us about feeding when we were trying to make
the first charge. That's when they told us about the 50 buckets (20
liters) of water and five bags (50 Kgs) of cow manure. But when we feed
it with this, it didn't work. So that's when we just abandoned it.

**Interviewer**: Did you feed it after the first charge?

**Interviewee**: No, we didn't feed it again. So, the bag deflated after
some time. It was tough. We were only abused.

**Interviewer**: What were maintenance requirements?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us anything about maintenance as well.

**Interviewer**: so, what are the challenges?

**Interviewee**: The challenge we faced was that people were listed as
beneficiaries in various other NGO projects, but the chiefs said that
our names should not be listed. He said because we would go for a biogas
seminar, it was not proper for us to get other benefits as well. So, our
friends were involved in other projects and we able to benefit money and
other things as a result they were able to supporttheir family through
the projects. As for us, we were only waiting to be called for a seminar
or training on biogas.

**Interviewer**: so you missed the other opportunities because you were
involved in biogas project.

**Interviewee**: Yes, of course. We were not involved in another project
because we got the digesters.

**Interviewer**: Which projects are you talking about in particular?

**Interviewee**: There were a lot of projects that we were not involved
in because of biogas. The first one was that we would not get involved
in the construction of a community road program by MASAF (Malawi Social
Action Fund). Also, people were given goats by NGOs, but our names were
again not listed because we were installed digesters that didn't even
work.

**Interviewer**: When it didn't work, what did you do?

**Interviewee**: I left it in the ground for two or three years. Then, I
decided to take it out to prevent the plastic digester bag from
decomposing in the ground. At first, I tried it to take it out to myself
but I failed, as I'm a woman. Then, I hired five boys to take it out.
So, they cut it a bit, take out the contents, and removed it.

**Interviewer**: Did you pay them?

**Interviewee**: Of course, we did. I paid each one K2000 for the work.
I even involve myself in some piecework to pay the boys. So, in total I
paid K10000 to take the digester bag out of the hole. But, I took it out
to help me with my roof that was leaking.

**Interviewer**: How would you describe the current state of your
digester today? If the installers call you today to find out about the
digester, what would you say to them?

**Interviewee**: I would ask them that did you give us the digester to
guard over it. Why didn't you follow up on us? Because, one would expect
the installers to follow up the equipment, but they didn't. And, that is
what normally what happens when organizations come here. When people
bring something to the community, they follow up to see progress and
performance. But, these ones didn't. So, if they decided to bring us to
court for damaging their equipment, we would accept the charges. And,
our defense would be that they did not follow up and they didn't
training us on anything. In regards of training, they told us to keep
old clothes for the training. They said to learn about feedstock making
we would need rags. So, we kept rags in the house waiting for the
training.

**Interviewer**: Oh, that was tough.

**Interviewee**: Yes, we suffered. Imagine, handling fresh manure with
bare hands.Imaging kids handle fresh manure. We suffered a lot, mister.

**Interviewer**: Why do you think the installers didn't come to
follow-up?

**Interviewee**: I don't know why they didn't come again. I just don't
know why they failed to come again and follow up.

**Interviewer**: Okay. Now that it is not working, are you still using
firewood for cooking?

**Interviewee**: Yeah, we still do that. We get small pieces of firewood
from the fields that we use for cooking our nsima.

**Interviewer**: We are going towards the end of interview. How much did
reactor cost?

**Interviewee**: They didn't tell us how much money the reactor cost.
And, they didn't say anything about money.

**Interviewer**: Did you contribute anything?

**Interviewee**: It's only that I abused the littles ones because of the
digester. When they came from school, I was ordering them to go source
cow manure and water as I thought it would benefit them. I even suffered
myself, because when I came from the field I was going directly to
people's houses to source manure. Today, when I think about biogas, I
feel sad that I caused pain to little children for nothing.

**Interviewer**: What is your opinion of biogas?

**Interviewee**: I have nothing to say about biogas other saying that it
caused us to suffer. I'm only happy that you came, so that makes us
think that you think about us. So, we are just hoping that something
good will happen in the future. Thus, we would be grateful if next time;
you would give us goats in place of biogas.

**Interviewer**: Final question, if you could have designed your own
waste or energy intervention, what could you have chosen instead?

**Interviewee**: I would choose an intervention of giving the community
livestock such as goat, so that from there we can get manure, and
support our families. Or, if there is a better intervention you think
would help us, we are willing to accept it.

**Interviewer**: You have to mention it yourself; so that people would
not come up with an intervention, you may not like it, or something that
may cause suffering as biogas did.

**Interviewee**: Then, I would just settle for an intervention that
would give goats or any other livestock to the community.

**Interviewer**: Sure. Thanks for the interview. Do you have any last
words?

**Interviewee**: Thanks for coming and for thinking about us. In
closing, I would simply say we need an intervention that can improve the
lives of people in this community.

**Interviewer**: Sure. Thanks.
